ITEM 1.BUSINESS
Overview
As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history, inspiring us to tackle big problems and invest in moonshots. It led us to be a pioneer in the development of AI and, since 2016, an AI-first company. We continue this work under the leadership of Alphabet and Google CEO, Sundar Pichai.
Alphabet is a collection of businesses — the largest of which is Google. We report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud, and all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Alphabet's structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence. 
Access and Technology for Everyone
The Internet is one of the world’s most powerful equalizers; it propels ideas, people, and businesses large and small. Our mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful is as relevant today as it was when we were founded in 1998. Since then, we have evolved from a company that helps people find answers to a company that also helps people get things done. 
We are focused on building an even more helpful Google for everyone, and we aspire to give everyone the tools they need to increase their knowledge, health, happiness, and success. Google Search helps people find information and make sense of the world in more natural and intuitive ways, with trillions of searches on Google every year. YouTube provides people with entertainment, information, and opportunities to learn something new. Google Assistant offers the best way to get things done seamlessly across different devices, providing intelligent help throughout a person's day, no matter where they are. Google Cloud helps customers solve today’s business challenges, improve productivity, reduce costs, and unlock new growth engines. We are continually innovating and building new products and features that will help our users, partners, customers, and communities and have invested more than $150 billion in research and development in the last five years in support of these efforts.
Making AI Helpful for Everyone
AI is a transformational technology that can bring meaningful and positive change to people and societies across the world, and for our business. At Google, we have been bringing AI into our products and services for more than a decade and making them available to our users. Our journey began in 2001, when machine learning was first incorporated into Google Search to suggest better spellings to users searching the web. Today, AI in our products is 
4. 



Alphabet Inc.

used by billions of people globally through features like autocomplete suggestions in Google Search; translation across 133 languages in Google Translate; and organization, searching, and editing in Google Photos.
Large language models (LLMs) are an exciting aspect of our work in AI based on deep learning architectures, such as the Transformer, a neural network architecture that we introduced in 2017 that helped with language understanding. This led to the Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers, or BERT, in 2019 that helped Search understand the intent of user search queries better than ever before.
Google was a company built in the cloud, and we continue to invest in our Google Cloud offerings, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace, to help organizations stay at the forefront of AI innovation with our AI-optimized infrastructure, mature AI platform and world-class models, and assistive agents.
We believe AI can solve some of the hardest societal, scientific and engineering challenges of our time. For example, in 2020, Google DeepMind’s AlphaFold system solved a 50-year-old protein folding challenge. Since then, we have open-sourced to the scientific community 200 million of AlphaFold’s protein structures which are used to work on everything from accelerating new malaria vaccines to advancing cancer drug discovery and developing plastic-eating enzymes. As another example, AI can also have a transformative effect on climate progress by providing helpful information, predicting climate-related events, and optimizing climate action. Using advanced AI and geospatial analysis, Google Research has developed flood forecasting models that can provide early warning and real-time flooding information to communities and individuals. 
As AI continues to improve rapidly, we are focused on giving helpful features to our users and customers as we deliver on our mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful. With a bold and responsible approach, we continue to take the next steps to make this technology even more helpful for everyone.
Deliver the Most Advanced, Safe, and Responsible AI
We aim to build the most advanced, safe, and responsible AI with models that are developed, trained, and rigorously tested at scale powered by our continued investment in AI technical infrastructure. In December 2023, we launched Gemini, our most capable and general model. It was built from the ground up to be multimodal, which means it can generalize and seamlessly understand, operate across, and combine different types of information, including text, code, audio, images, and video. Our teams across Alphabet will leverage Gemini, as well as other AI models we have previously developed and announced, across our business to deliver the best product and service experiences for our users, advertisers, partners, customers, and developers.
We believe our approach to AI must be both bold and responsible. That means developing AI in a way that maximizes the positive benefits to society while addressing the challenges, guided by our AI Principles. We published these in 2018, as one of the first companies to articulate principles that put beneficial use, users, safety, and avoidance of harms above business considerations. While there is natural tension between being bold and being responsible, we believe it is possible — and in fact critical — to embrace that tension productively.
Enable Organizations and Developers to Innovate on Google Cloud
AI is not only a powerful enabler, it is also a major platform shift. Globally, businesses from startups to large enterprises, and the public sector are thinking about how to drive transformation. That is why we are focused on making it easy and scalable for others to innovate, and grow, with AI. That means providing the most advanced computing infrastructure and expanding access to Google’s latest AI models that have been rigorously tested in our own products. Our Vertex AI platform gives developers the ability to train, tune, augment, and deploy applications using generative AI models and services such as Enterprise Search and Conversations. Duet AI for Google Cloud provides pre-packaged AI agents that assist developers to write, test, document, and operate software.
Improve Knowledge, Learning, Creativity, and Productivity
Things that we now consider routine – like spell check, mobile check deposit, or Google Search, Google Translate, and Google Maps – all use AI. As AI continues to improve rapidly, we are focused on giving helpful features to our users as we continue to deliver on our mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful.
While we have been integrating AI into our products for years, we are now embedding the power of generative AI to continue helping our users express themselves and get things done. For example, Duet AI in Google Workspace helps users write, organize, visualize, accelerate workflows, and have richer meetings. Bard allows users to collaborate with experimental AI with new features that include image capabilities, coding support, and app integration. Dream Screen, a new experimental feature in YouTube, allows for the creation of AI-generated video or image backgrounds to Shorts by typing an idea into a prompt.
5. 



Alphabet Inc.

We also know businesses of all sizes around the world rely on Google Ads to find customers and grow their businesses — and we make that even easier with AI. With Performance Max, advertisers simply tell us their campaign goals and share their creative assets, and AI will automatically produce and run a highly effective ad campaign across all of Google’s properties, to meet their budget. Product Studio brings the benefits of AI to businesses of all sizes, helping them easily create uniquely-tailored imagery featuring their products — for free. Additionally, we are experimenting with Search and Shopping ads that are directly integrated into the AI-powered snapshot and conversational mode in Search Generative Experience.
Build the Most Helpful Personal Computing Platforms and Devices
Over the years, our Pixel phones have incorporated AI compute directly into the device and built experiences on top of it. Our latest Pixel devices were built around AI, bringing the best AI-assistive experiences to our users, such as Best Take, Magic Editor, and Audio Magic Eraser. As we look ahead, we are designing our Android and Chrome operating systems with new AI-forward user experiences. 
Moonshots
Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. Our early investments in AI started out as moonshots but are now incorporated into our core products and central to future developments. We continue to look toward the future and to invest for the long term, most notably for the application of AI to our products and services, as well as other frontier technologies such as quantum computing. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in, as they are the key to our long-term success.
Privacy and Security
We make it a priority to protect the privacy and security of our products, users, and customers, even if there are near-term financial consequences. We do this by continuously investing in building products that are secure by default; strictly upholding responsible data practices that emphasize privacy by design; and building easy-to-use settings that put people in control. We are continually enhancing these efforts over time, whether by enabling users to auto-delete their data, giving them tools, such as My Ad Center, to control their ad experience, or advancing anti-malware, anti-phishing, and password security features.
Google
For reporting purposes Google comprises two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud.
Google Services
Serving Our Users
We have always been committed to building helpful products that can improve the lives of millions of people worldwide. Our product innovations are what make our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google Services' core products and platforms include ads, Android, Chrome, devices, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google Play, Search, and YouTube, with broad and growing adoption by users around the world.
Our products and services have come a long way since the company was founded more than 25 years ago. While Google Search started as a way to find web pages, organized into ten blue links, we have driven technical advancements and product innovations that have transformed Google Search into a dynamic, multimodal experience. We first expanded from traditional desktop browsers into mobile web search, making it easier to navigate on smaller screens. As new types of content surfaced on the internet, Universal Search made it possible to search multiple content types, like news, images, videos, and more, to deliver rich, relevant results. The introduction of new search modalities, like voice and visual search, made it easier for people to express their curiosity in natural and intuitive ways. We took that a step further with multisearch, which lets people search with text and images at the same time. Large language models like BERT and Multitask Unified Models, or MUMs, have made it possible to express more natural language queries, vastly improving the quality of results. Each advancement has made it easier and more natural for people to find what they are looking for.
This drive to make information more accessible and helpful has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content both on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. People are consuming many forms of digital content, including watching videos, streaming TV, playing games, listening to music, 
6. 



Alphabet Inc.

reading books, and using apps. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to create and find great digital content.
Fueling all of these great digital experiences are extraordinary platforms and devices. That is why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, and Chrome operating system, as well as growing our family of devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful and make people's lives easier by combining the best of our AI, software, and hardware. This potential is reflected in our latest generation of devices, such as the new Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro, and the Pixel Watch 2. Creating products and services that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long-term.
How We Make Money
We have built world-class advertising technologies for advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses through our wide range of products across devices and formats, and we aim to ensure positive user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. AI has been foundational to our advertising business for more than a decade. Products like Performance Max and Product Studio use the full power of our AI to help advertisers find untapped and incremental conversion opportunities.
Google Services generates revenues primarily by delivering both performance and brand advertising that appears on Google Search & other properties, YouTube, and Google Network partners' properties ("Google Network properties"). We continue to invest in both performance and brand advertising and seek to improve the measurability of advertising so advertisers understand the effectiveness of their campaigns.
•Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. Our ads tools allow performance advertisers to create simple text-based ads.
•Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity for advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns. 
We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, including filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions of bad ads from our systems every year, and closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blocklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content.
In addition, Google Services increasingly generates revenues from products and services beyond advertising, including:
•consumer subscriptions, which primarily include revenues from YouTube services, such as YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket, as well as Google One;
•platforms, which primarily include revenues from Google Play from the sales of apps and in-app purchases; and
•devices, which primarily include sales of the Pixel family of devices.
Google Cloud
Through our Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace offerings, Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, collaboration tools and other cloud services. Customers use five key capabilities from Google Cloud.
•AI-optimized Infrastructure: provides open, reliable, and scalable compute, networking, and storage to enable customers to run workloads anywhere — on our Cloud, at the edge, or in their data centers. It can be used to migrate and modernize IT systems and to train and serve various types of AI models. 
•Cybersecurity: helps customers detect, protect, and respond to a broad range of cybersecurity threats, with AI integrated to further strengthen security outcomes, prioritize which threats to investigate, and identify attack paths, as well as accelerate resolution of cybersecurity threats. 
•Databases and Analytics: provides a variety of different types of databases — relational, key-value, in-memory — to store and manage data for different types of applications. Our Data Cloud also unifies data lakes, data warehouses, data governance, and advanced machine learning into a single platform that can analyze data across any cloud.
7. 



Alphabet Inc.

•Collaboration Tools: Google Workspace and Duet AI in Google Workspace provide easy-to-use, secure communication and collaboration tools, including apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Meet, and more. These tools enable secure hybrid and remote work, boosting productivity and collaboration. AI has been used in Google Workspace for years to improve grammar, efficiency, security, and more with features like Smart Reply, Smart Compose, and malware and phishing protection in Gmail. Duet AI in Google Workspace helps users write, organize, visualize, accelerate workflows, and have richer meetings.
•AI Platform and Duet AI for Google Cloud: Our Vertex AI platform gives developers the ability to train, tune, augment, and deploy applications using generative AI models and services such as Enterprise Search and Conversations. Duet AI for Google Cloud provides pre-packaged AI agents that assist developers to write, test, document, and operate software.
Other Bets
 Across Alphabet, we are also using technology to try to solve big problems that affect a wide variety of industries from improving transportation and health technology to exploring solutions to address climate change. Alphabet’s investment in the portfolio of Other Bets includes businesses that are at various stages of development, ranging from those in the R&D phase to those that are in the beginning stages of commercialization. Our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses. Other Bets operate as independent companies and some of them have their own boards with independent members and outside investors. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of healthcare-related services and internet services.
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, including, among others, from:
•general purpose search engines and information services;
•vertical search engines and e-commerce providers for queries related to travel, jobs, and health, which users may navigate directly to rather than go through Google;
•online advertising platforms and networks;
•other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television as our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline;
•digital content and application platform providers;
•providers of enterprise cloud services;
•developers and providers of AI products and services;
•companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer hardware products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms;
•providers of digital video services; 
•social networks, which users may rely on for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines;
•providers of workspace communication and connectivity products; and 
•digital assistant providers.
Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to develop and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace across our businesses. For example, for advertising, competing successfully depends on attracting and retaining:
•users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely on the basis of the relevance of our advertising, as well as the general usefulness, security, and availability of our products and services;
•advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels; and
•content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.
8. 



Alphabet Inc.

For additional information about competition, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Ongoing Commitment to Sustainability
We believe that every business has the opportunity and obligation to protect our planet. Sustainability is one of our core values at Google, and we strive to build sustainability into everything we do. We have been a leader on sustainability and climate change since Google’s founding more than 25 years ago. 
Our sustainability work is focused on empowering individuals to take action, working together with our partners and customers, and working to reduce our carbon footprint across our operations and supply chain.
In 2020, we shared our aspiration to help individuals, cities, and other partners collectively reduce one gigaton of their carbon equivalent emissions annually by 2030. This is an ambitious vision that we have set to push us to contribute meaningfully to helping with climate solutions beyond our own operations and value chain. 
In 2021, we set an ambitious goal to achieve net-zero emissions across all of our operations and value chain, by 2030. To accomplish this, we aim to reduce 50% of our combined Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-based), and Scope 3 absolute emissions (versus our 2019 baseline) before 2030, and plan to invest in nature-based and technology-based carbon removal solutions to neutralize our remaining emissions. We have formally committed to the Science Based Targets initiative to seek their validation of our absolute emissions reduction target. 
One of the key levers for reducing emissions from our operations is transitioning to clean energy. Since 2017, we have matched 100% of the electricity consumption of our global operations with purchases of renewable energy on an annual basis. However, because of differences in the availability of renewable energy sources like solar and wind across the regions where we operate—and because of the variable supply of these resources—we still need to rely on carbon-emitting energy sources that power local grids. That is why we set a goal to run on 24/7 carbon-free energy (CFE) on every grid where we operate by 2030.
Achieving net-zero emissions and 24/7 CFE by 2030 are extremely ambitious goals. We also know that our path to net-zero emissions will not be easy or linear. Some of our plans may take years to deliver results, particularly where they involve building new large-scale infrastructure with long lead times. So as our business continues to evolve, we expect our emissions to rise before dropping towards our absolute emissions reduction target.
To benefit the people and places where we operate, we have set goals to replenish 120% of the freshwater volume we consume, on average, across our offices and data centers by 2030 and to help restore and improve the quality of water and health of ecosystems in the communities where we operate. 
We also aim to maximize the reuse of finite resources across our operations, products, and supply chains. Our circularity principles focus on designing out waste from the start, keeping materials in use for as long as possible, and promoting healthy materials—for our data centers, workplaces, and products.
More information on our approach to sustainability can be found in our annual sustainability reports, including Google’s Environmental Report. The contents of our sustainability reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. For additional information about risks and uncertainties applicable to our commitments to attain certain sustainability goals, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Culture and Workforce
We are a company of curious, talented, and passionate people. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex challenges in technology and society.
Our people are critical for our continued success, so we work hard to create an environment where employees can have fulfilling careers, and be happy, healthy, and productive. We offer industry-leading benefits and programs to take care of the diverse needs of our employees and their families, including opportunities for career growth and development, resources to support their financial health, and access to excellent healthcare choices. Our competitive compensation programs help us to attract and retain top candidates, and we will continue to invest in recruiting talented people to technical and non-technical roles, and rewarding them well. We provide a variety of high quality training and support to managers to build and strengthen their capabilities-–ranging from courses for new managers, to learning resources that help them provide feedback and manage performance, to coaching and individual support.
At Alphabet, we are committed to making diversity, equity, and inclusion part of everything we do and to growing a workforce that is representative of the users we serve. More information on Google’s approach to diversity can be found in our annual diversity reports, available publicly at diversity.google. The contents of our diversity reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC.
9. 



Alphabet Inc.

 As of December 31, 2023, Alphabet had 182,502 employees. We have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, and we are committed to supporting protected labor rights, maintaining an open culture, and listening to all employees. Supporting healthy and open dialogue is central to how we work, and we communicate information about the company through multiple internal channels to our employees.
When necessary we contract with businesses around the world to provide specialized services where we do not have appropriate in-house expertise or resources, often in fields that require specialized training like cafe operations, content moderation, customer support, and physical security. We also contract with temporary staffing agencies when we need to cover short-term leaves, when we have spikes in business needs, or when we need to quickly incubate special projects. We choose our partners and staffing agencies carefully, and review their compliance with Google’s Supplier Code of Conduct. We continually make improvements to promote a respectful and positive working environment for everyone — employees, vendors, and temporary staff alike.
Government Regulation
We are subject to numerous United States (U.S.) federal, state, and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subjects, and the scope of this coverage continues to broaden with continuing new legal and regulatory developments in the U.S. and internationally. Like other companies in the technology industry, we face increasingly heightened scrutiny from both U.S. and foreign governments with respect to our compliance with laws and regulations. Many of these laws and regulations are evolving and their applicability and scope, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain. Particularly with regard to AI; climate change and sustainability; competition; consumer protection; content moderation; data privacy and security; news publications; and reporting on human capital and diversity, we have seen an increase in new and evolving laws and regulations, as well as related enforcement actions and investigations, being proposed and implemented in recent years by legislative and regulatory bodies around the world.
Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and could, individually or in the aggregate, increase our cost of doing business, make our products and services less useful, limit our ability to pursue certain business models, cause us to change our business practices, affect our competitive position relative to our peers, and/or otherwise harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
For additional information about government regulation applicable to our business, see Item 1A Risk Factors; Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect in Part II, Item 7; and Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Intellectual Property
We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names, and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties. For additional information, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Available Information
Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments to these reports, is available on our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file or furnish them with the SEC and they are available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance and other items that may be material or of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. We also share Google news and product updates on Google's Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, which may be of interest or material to our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Governance." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
10. 



Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results, and affect the trading price of our Class A and Class C stock.
Risks Specific to our Company
We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising. Reduced spending by advertisers, a loss of partners, or new and existing technologies that block ads online and/or affect our ability to customize ads could harm our business. 
We generated more than 75% of total revenues from online advertising in 2023. Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content providers can terminate their contracts with us at any time. These partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. Changes to our advertising policies and data privacy practices, such as our initiatives to phase out third-party cookies, as well as changes to other companies’ advertising and/or data privacy practices have in the past, and may in the future, affect the advertising that we are able to provide. In addition, technologies have been developed that make customized ads more difficult, or that block the display of ads altogether, and some providers of online services have integrated these technologies that could potentially impair the availability and functionality of third-party digital advertising. Failing to provide superior value or deliver advertisements effectively and competitively could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to correlate with overall economic conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions have affected, and may in the future affect, the demand for advertising, resulting in fluctuations in the amounts our advertisers spend on advertising, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, customers, and other partners, we may not remain competitive, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
Our business environment is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our businesses face changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of rival products and services. To compete successfully, we must accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies in a timely manner. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services. We must continue to invest significant resources in technical infrastructure and R&D, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our technology, products, and services. 
We have many competitors in different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Some competitors have longer operating histories and well-established relationships in various sectors. They can use their experience and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions and entering into other strategic arrangements; continuing to invest heavily in technical infrastructure, R&D, and in talent; initiating intellectual property and competition claims (whether or not meritorious); and continuing to compete for users, advertisers, customers, and content providers. Further, discrepancies in enforcement of existing laws may enable our lesser known competitors to aggressively interpret those laws without commensurate scrutiny, thereby affording them competitive advantages. Our competitors may also be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the need for products and services before we do. 
We are expanding our investment in AI across the entire company. This includes generative AI and continuing to integrate AI capabilities into our products and services. AI technology and services are highly competitive, rapidly evolving, and require significant investment, including development and operational costs, to meet the changing needs and expectations of our existing users and attract new users. Our ability to deploy certain AI technologies critical for our products and services and for our business strategy may depend on the availability and pricing of third-party equipment and technical infrastructure. Additionally, other companies may develop AI products and technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies or more cost-effective to deploy. Other companies may also have (or in the future may obtain) patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our own AI products and services.
Our financial condition and operating results may also suffer if our products and services are not responsive to the evolving needs and desires of our users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. As new and existing technologies continue to develop, competitors and new entrants may be able to offer experiences that are, or 
11. 



Alphabet Inc.

that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. These technologies could reduce usage of our products and services, and force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources to develop and operate equal or better products and services. Competitors’ success in providing compelling products and services or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
Our ongoing investment in new businesses, products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could divert management attention and harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies in a wide range of industries beyond online advertising. The investments that we are making across our businesses, such as building AI capabilities into new and existing products and services, reflect our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are helpful to users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. Our investments ultimately may not be commercially viable or may not result in an adequate return of capital and, in pursuing new strategies, we may incur unanticipated liabilities. Innovations in our products and services could also result in changes to user behavior and affect our revenue trends. These endeavors involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion of resources and management attention from current operations, different monetization models, and the use of alternative investment, governance, or compensation structures that may fail to adequately align incentives across the company or otherwise accomplish their objectives.
Within Google Services, we continue to invest heavily in devices, including our smartphones, home devices, and wearables, which is a highly competitive market with frequent introduction of new products and services, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, increased market saturation in developed countries, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in performance characteristics, and price and feature sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. There can be no assurance we will be able to provide devices that compete effectively. 
Within Google Cloud, we devote significant resources to develop and deploy our enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace, and we are advancing our AI platforms and models to support these tools and technologies. We are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services, invest in cybersecurity, and hire talent, particularly to support and scale our sales force. At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services. Pricing and delivery models are competitive and constantly evolving, and we may not attain sufficient scale and profitability to achieve our business objectives. Further, our business with public sector customers may present additional risks, including regulatory compliance risks. For instance, we may be subject to government audits and cost reviews, and any failure to comply or any deficiencies found may expose us to legal, financial, and/or reputational risks. Evolving laws and regulations may require us to make new capital investments, build new products, and seek partners to deliver localized services in other countries, and we may not be able to meet sovereign operating requirements. 
Within Other Bets, we are investing significantly in the areas of health, life sciences, and transportation, among others. These investment areas face intense competition from large, experienced, and well-funded competitors, and our offerings, many of which involve the development of new and emerging technologies, may not be successful, or be able to compete effectively or operate at sufficient levels of profitability. 
In addition, new and evolving products and services, including those that use AI, raise ethical, technological, legal, regulatory, and other challenges, which may negatively affect our brands and demand for our products and services. Because all of these investment areas are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful or will not harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we may experience downward pressure on our operating margin in the future. 
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including changes in the devices and modalities used to access our products and services; changes in geographic mix; deceleration or declines in advertiser spending; competition; customer usage and demand for our products; decreases in our pricing of our products and services; ongoing product and policy changes; and shifts to lower priced products and services. 
In addition, we may experience downward pressure on our operating margin resulting from a variety of factors, such as an increase in the mix of lower-margin products and services, in particular from the continued expansion of our business into new fields, including products and services such as our devices, Google Cloud, and consumer subscription products, as well as significant investments in Other Bets, all of which may have margins lower than those we generate from advertising. In particular, margins on our devices have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our consolidated margins due to pressures on pricing and higher cost of sales. We may also experience 
12. 



Alphabet Inc.

downward pressure on our operating margins from increasing regulations, increasing competition, and increasing costs for many aspects of our business. Further, certain of our costs and expenses are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate to changes in revenue. We may also not be able to execute our efforts to re-engineer our cost base successfully or in a timely manner. Due to these factors and the evolving nature of our business, our historical revenue growth rate and historical operating margin may not be indicative of our future performance. For additional information, see Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect and Revenues and Monetization Metrics in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brands as well as affect our ability to compete. 
Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services, and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. There is always the possibility that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. 
We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of such trade secrets and other sensitive information could be compromised, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word “Google” could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word “search.” Some courts have ruled that "Google" is a protectable trademark, but it is possible that other courts, particularly those outside of the U.S., may reach a different determination. If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word “Google” to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand. 
Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our financial condition and operating results. 
Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. 
Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products and services that better serve the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our brands have been, and may in the future be, negatively affected by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy and security issues and developments, and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to respond appropriately to the sharing of misinformation or objectionable content on our services and/or products or objectionable practices by advertisers, or otherwise to adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence in our brands. 
Furthermore, failure to maintain and enhance our brands could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our success will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, trustworthy, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a valuable role in a range of settings. 
We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management, which could affect our ability to supply both our products and our services. 
We rely on contract manufacturers to manufacture or assemble our devices and servers and networking equipment used in our technical infrastructure, and we may supply the contract manufacturers with components to assemble the devices and equipment. We also rely on other companies to participate in the supply of components and distribution of our products and services. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage these companies with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their 
13. 



Alphabet Inc.

obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them. 
We have experienced and/or may in the future experience supply shortages, price increases, quality issues, and/or longer lead times that could negatively affect our operations, driven by raw material, component availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, logistics capacity, inflation, foreign currency exchange rates, tariffs, sanctions and export controls, trade disputes and barriers, forced labor concerns, sustainability sourcing requirements, geopolitical tensions, armed conflicts, natural disasters or pandemics, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, heat waves, wildfires and resultant air quality effects and power shutdowns associated with wildfire prevention, and increased storm severity), power loss, and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. Some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and our devices are available from only one or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms in the event of a supply chain disruption. A significant supply interruption that affects us or our vendors could delay critical data center upgrades or expansions and delay consumer product availability. 
We may enter into long-term contracts for materials and products that commit us to significant terms and conditions. We may face costs for materials and products that are not consumed due to market demand, technological change, changed consumer preferences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because certain of our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of sales of our devices decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and harm our financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect our supply. 
Our devices have had, and in the future may have, quality issues resulting from design, manufacturing, or operations. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products and services does not meet expectations or our products or services are defective or require a recall, it could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
We require our suppliers and business partners to comply with laws and, where applicable, our company policies and practices, such as the Google Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance, and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. Violations of law or unethical business practices could result in supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, harm to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. Their failure to procure necessary license rights to intellectual property could affect our ability to sell our products or services and expose us to litigation or financial claims. 
Interruption to, interference with, or failure of our complex information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
The availability of our products and services and fulfillment of our customer contracts depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage, interference, or interruption from modifications or upgrades, terrorist attacks, state-sponsored attacks, natural disasters or pandemics, geopolitical tensions or armed conflicts, export controls and sanctions, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, heat waves, wildfires and resultant air quality effects and power shutdowns associated with wildfire prevention, and increased storm severity), power loss, utility outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, software bugs, ransomware attacks, supply-chain attacks, computer denial of service attacks, phishing schemes, or other attempts to harm or access our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and, in some cases, to potential disruptions resulting from problems experienced by facility operators or disruptions as a result of geopolitical tensions and conflicts happening in the area. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster or pandemic, closure of a facility, or other unanticipated problems affecting our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and have contained in the past, and may contain in the future, errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in or failure of our services or systems. Any of these incidents could impede or prevent us from effectively offering products and providing services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.
14. 



Alphabet Inc.

Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 53% of our consolidated revenues in 2023. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following:
•restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;
•sanctions, import and export controls, other market access barriers, political unrest, geopolitical tensions, changes in regimes, or armed conflict (such as ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine), any of which may affect our business continuity, increase our operating costs, limit demand for our products and services, limit our ability to source components or final products, or prevent or impede us from operating in certain jurisdictions, complying with local laws, or offering products or services;
•longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud;
•an evolving foreign policy landscape that may adversely affect our revenues and could subject us to litigation, new regulatory costs and challenges (including new customer requirements), uncertainty regarding regulatory outcomes, and other liabilities under local laws that may not offer due process or clear legal precedent;
•anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting certain payments to government officials, violations of which could result in civil and criminal penalties; and
•different employee/employer relationships, existence of works councils and differing labor practices, and other challenges caused by distance, language, local expertise, and cultural differences, increasing the complexity of doing business in multiple jurisdictions.
Because we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we have faced, and will continue to face, exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
We are exposed to fluctuations in the fair values of our investments and, in some instances, our financial statements incorporate inherently subjective valuation methodologies. 
The fair value of our debt and equity investments may in the future be, and certain investments have been in the past, negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, performance and financial results of the underlying entities, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates, including changes that may result from the implementation of new benchmark rates, the effect of new or changing regulations, the stock market in general, or other factors. 
We measure certain of our non-marketable equity and debt securities, certain other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled in the stock of Other Bet companies, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, which is inherently subjective and requires management judgment and estimation. All gains and losses on non-marketable equity securities are recognized in OI&E, which increases the volatility of our OI&E. The unrealized gains and losses or impairments we record from fair value remeasurements in any particular period may differ significantly from the gains or losses we ultimately realize on such investments. 
As a result of these factors, the value of our investments could decline, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
Risks Related to our Industry 
People access our products and services through a variety of platforms and devices that continue to evolve with the advancement of technology and user preferences. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our products and services developed for these interfaces, our business could be harmed. 
People access our products and services through a growing variety of devices such as desktop computers, mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-activated speakers, wearables (including virtual reality and augmented reality devices), automobiles, and television-streaming devices. Our products and services may be less popular on some interfaces. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not be available or may only be available with limited functionality for our users or our advertisers on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries may be undertaken via voice-activated search, apps, 
15. 



Alphabet Inc.

social media or other platforms, which could harm our business. It is hard to predict the challenges we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to creating and supporting products and services across multiple platforms and devices. Failing to attract and retain a substantial number of new device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users, or failing to develop products and technologies that work well on new devices and platforms, could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results and ability to capture future business opportunities. 
Issues in the development and use of AI may result in reputational harm and increased liability exposure. 
Our evolving AI-related efforts may give rise to risks related to harmful content, inaccuracies, discrimination, intellectual property infringement or misappropriation, defamation, data privacy, cybersecurity, and other issues. As a result of these and other challenges associated with innovative technologies, our implementation of AI systems could subject us to competitive harm, regulatory action, legal liability (including under new and proposed legislation and regulations), new applications of existing data protection, privacy, intellectual property, and other laws, and brand or reputational harm. 
Some uses of AI will present ethical issues and may have broad effects on society. In order to implement AI responsibly and minimize unintended harmful effects, we have already devoted and will continue to invest significant resources to develop, test, and maintain our products and services, but we may not be able to identify or resolve all AI-related issues, deficiencies, and/or failures before they arise. Unintended consequences, uses, or customization of our AI tools and systems may negatively affect human rights, privacy, employment, or other social concerns, which may result in claims, lawsuits, brand or reputational harm, and increased regulatory scrutiny, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.
Data privacy and security concerns relating to our technology and our practices could harm our reputation, cause us to incur significant liability, and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. Computer viruses, software bugs or defects, security breaches, and attacks on our systems could result in the improper disclosure and use of user data and interference with our users’ and customers’ ability to use our products and services, harming our business and reputation. 
Concerns about, including the adequacy of, our practices with regard to the collection, use, governance, disclosure, or security of personal data or other data-privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our policies and practices may change over time as expectations and regulations regarding privacy and data change. 
Our products and services involve the storage, handling, and transmission of proprietary and other sensitive information. Software bugs, theft, misuse, defects, vulnerabilities in our products and services, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss or improper use and disclosure of such information, which could result in litigation and other potential liabilities, including regulatory fines and penalties, as well as reputational harm. Additionally, our products incorporate highly technical and complex technologies, and thus our technologies and software have contained, and are likely in the future to contain, undetected errors, bugs, and/or vulnerabilities. We continue to add new features involving AI to our offerings and internal systems, and features that rely on AI may be susceptible to unanticipated security threats as our and the market’s understanding of AI-centric security risks and protection methods continue to develop. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, some errors in our software code only after we have released the code. Systems and control failures, security breaches, failure to comply with our privacy policies, and/or inadvertent disclosure of user data could result in government and legal exposure, seriously harm our reputation, brand, and business, and impair our ability to attract and retain users or customers. Such incidents have occurred in the past and may continue to occur due to the scale and nature of our products and services. While there is no guarantee that such incidents will not cause significant damage, we expect to continue to expend significant resources to maintain security protections that limit the effect of bugs, theft, misuse, and security vulnerabilities or breaches. 
We experience cyber attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems on a regular basis. Cyber attacks continue to evolve in sophistication and volume, and inherently may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. We have seen, and will continue to see, industry-wide software supply chain vulnerabilities, which could affect our or other parties’ systems. We expect to continue to experience such incidents or vulnerabilities in the future. Our efforts to address undesirable activity on our platform may also increase the risk of retaliatory attack. In addition, we face the risk of cyber attacks by nation-states and state-sponsored actors. These attacks may target us or our customers, particularly our public sector customers (including federal, state, and local governments). Geopolitical tensions or armed conflicts, such as the ongoing conflict in the Middle East and Ukraine, may increase these risks. 
We may experience security issues, whether due to employee or insider error or malfeasance, system errors, or vulnerabilities in our or other parties’ systems. While we may not determine some of these issues to be material at the 
16. 



Alphabet Inc.

time they occur and may remedy them quickly, there is no guarantee that these issues will not ultimately result in significant legal, financial, and reputational harm, including government inquiries, enforcement actions, litigation, and negative publicity. There is also no guarantee that a series of related issues may not be determined to be material at a later date in the aggregate, even if they may not be material individually at the time of their occurrence. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, disable or degrade service provided by or otherwise sabotage systems change frequently and often are recognized only after being launched against a target, even taking all reasonable precautions, including those required by law, we have been unable in the past and may continue to be unable to anticipate or detect attacks or vulnerabilities or implement adequate preventative measures. 
Further, if any partners with whom we share user or other customer information fail to implement adequate data-security practices, fail to comply with our terms and policies, or otherwise suffer a network or other security breach, our users’ data may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. If an actual or perceived breach of our or our business partners’ or service providers’ security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures would be harmed, we could lose users and customers, our trade secrets or those of our business partners may be compromised, and we may be exposed to significant legal and financial risks, including legal claims (which may include class-action litigation) and regulatory actions, fines, and penalties. Any of the foregoing consequences could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
While we have dedicated significant resources to privacy and security incident response capabilities, including dedicated worldwide incident response teams, our response process, particularly during times of a natural disaster or pandemic, may not be adequate, may fail to accurately assess the severity of an incident, may not be fast enough to prevent or limit harm, or may fail to sufficiently remediate an incident. As a result, we may suffer significant legal, reputational, or financial exposure, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
For additional information, see also our risk factor on privacy and data protection regulations under ‘Risks Related to Laws, Regulations, and Policies’ below.
Our ongoing investments in safety, security, and content review will likely continue to identify abuse of our platforms and misuse of user data. 
In addition to our efforts to prevent and mitigate cyber attacks, we are making significant investments in safety, security, and review efforts to combat misuse of our services and unauthorized access to user data by third parties, including investigation and review of platform applications that could access the information of users of our services. As a result of these efforts, we have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, incidents of unnecessary access to or misuse of user data or other undesirable activity by third parties. However, we may not have discovered, and may in the future not discover, all such incidents or activity, whether as a result of our data limitations, including our lack of visibility over our encrypted services, the scale of activity on our platform, or other factors, including factors outside of our control such as a natural disaster or pandemic, and we may learn of such incidents or activity via third parties. Such incidents and activities may include the use of user data or our systems in a manner inconsistent with our terms, contracts or policies, the existence of false or undesirable user accounts, election interference, improper ad purchases, activities that threaten people’s safety on- or off-line, or instances of spamming, scraping, or spreading disinformation. While we may not determine some of these incidents to be material at the time they occurred and we may remedy them quickly, there is no guarantee that these issues will not ultimately result in significant legal, financial, and reputational harm, including government inquiries and enforcement actions, litigation, and negative publicity. There is also no guarantee that a series of related issues may not be determined to be material at a later date in the aggregate, even if they may not be material individually at the time of their occurrence. 
We may also be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our policies or otherwise prevent or remediate any such incidents. Any of the foregoing developments may negatively affect user trust and engagement, harm our reputation and brands, require us to change our business practices in ways that harm our business operations, and adversely affect our business and financial results. Any such developments may also subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result in monetary penalties and damages, divert management’s time and attention, and lead to enhanced regulatory oversight. 
Problematic content on our platforms, including low-quality user-generated content, web spam, content farms, and other violations of our guidelines could affect the quality of our services, which could harm our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. 
We, like others in the industry, face violations of our content guidelines across our platforms, including sophisticated attempts by bad actors to manipulate our hosting and advertising systems to fraudulently generate revenues, or to otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine user interest or intent. While we invest significantly in efforts to promote high-quality and relevant results and to detect and prevent low-quality content and invalid traffic, we have been unable and may continue to be unable to detect and prevent all such abuses or promote 
17. 



Alphabet Inc.

uniformly high-quality content. Increased use of AI in our offerings and internal systems may create new avenues of abuse for bad actors.
Many websites violate or attempt to violate our guidelines, including by seeking to inappropriately rank higher in search results than our search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. Such efforts have affected, and may continue to affect, the quality of content on our platforms and lead them to display false, misleading, or undesirable content. Although English-language web spam in our search results has been reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek inappropriate ways to improve their rankings. Although we continue to invest in and deploy proprietary technology to detect and prevent web spam on our platforms, there is no guarantee that our technology will always be successful, and our users may have negative experiences on our platforms if our technology fails to work as intended, which may affect our users' decisions in continuing to use our platforms. We also face other challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes designed to detect and prevent abuse from low-quality websites, but we may not always be successful. We also face other challenges on our platforms, including violations of our content guidelines involving incidents such as attempted election interference, activities that threaten the safety and/or well-being of our users on- or off-line, and the spreading of misinformation or disinformation. 
If we fail to either detect and prevent an increase in problematic content or effectively promote high-quality content, it could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information or reduce use of our platforms, harming our financial condition and operating results. It may also subject us to litigation and regulatory actions, which could result in monetary penalties and damages and divert management’s time and attention. 
Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. 
Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take, measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings, or by providing our competitors preferential access. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms of discrimination by internet access providers; however, substantial uncertainty exists in the U.S. and elsewhere regarding such protections. For example, in 2018 the U.S. Federal Communications Commission repealed net neutrality rules, which could permit internet access providers to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. These could harm existing key relationships, including with our users, customers, advertisers, and/or content providers, and impair our ability to attract new ones; harm our reputation; and increase costs, thereby negatively affecting our business. 
Risks Related to Laws, Regulations, and Policies 
We are subject to a variety of new, existing, and changing laws and regulations worldwide that could harm our business, and will likely be subject to an even broader scope of laws and regulations as we continue to expand our business. 
We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subjects, and our introduction of new businesses, products, services, and technologies will likely continue to subject us to additional laws and regulations. In recent years, governments around the world have proposed and adopted a large number of new laws and regulations relevant to the digital economy, particularly in the areas of data privacy and security, competition, environmental, social and governance (ESG) requirements, AI, and online content. The costs of compliance with these measures are high and are likely to increase in the future. 
New or changing laws and regulations, or new interpretations or applications of existing laws and regulations in a manner inconsistent with our practices, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, less useful products and services, altered business practices, limited ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products and services, substantial costs, and civil or criminal liability. Examples include laws and regulations regarding: 
•Competition and technology platforms’ business practices: Laws and regulations focused on large technology platforms, including the Digital Markets Act in the European Union (EU); regulations and legal 
18. 



Alphabet Inc.

settlements in the U.S., South Korea, and elsewhere that affect Google Play’s billing policies, fees, and business model; as well as litigation and new regulations under consideration in a range of jurisdictions.
•AI: Laws and regulations focused on the development, use, and provision of AI technologies and other digital products and services, which could result in monetary penalties or other regulatory actions. For example, while legislative text has yet to be finalized and formally approved, provisional political agreement on a proposed EU AI Act was reached between co-legislators in December 2023, including that specific transparency and other requirements would be introduced for general purpose AI systems and the models on which those systems are based. In addition, the White House's Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence devises a framework for the U.S. government, among other things, to regulate private sector use and development of certain foundation models. 
•Data privacy, collection, and processing: Laws and regulations further restricting the collection, processing, and/or sharing of user or advertising-related data, including privacy and data protection laws; laws affecting the processing of children's data (as discussed further below), data breach notification laws, and laws limiting data transfers (including data localization laws). 
•Copyright and other intellectual property: Copyright and related laws, including the EU Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market and European Economic Area transpositions, which may introduce new licensing regimes, increase liability with respect to content uploaded by users or linked to from our platforms, or create property rights in news publications that could require payments to news agencies and publishers, which may result in other regulatory actions. 
•Content moderation: Various laws covering content moderation and removal, and related disclosure obligations, such as the EU's Digital Services Act, Florida’s Senate Bill 7072 and Texas’ House Bill 20, and laws and proposed legislation in Singapore, Australia, and the United Kingdom that impose penalties for failure to remove certain types of content or require disclosure of information about the operation of our services and algorithms, which may make it harder for services like Google Search and YouTube to detect and deal with low-quality, deceptive, or harmful content.
•Consumer protection: Consumer protection laws, including the EU’s New Deal for Consumers, which could result in monetary penalties and create a range of new compliance obligations.
In addition, the applicability and scope of these and other laws and regulations, as interpreted by courts, regulators, or administrative bodies, remain uncertain and could be interpreted in ways that harm our business. For example, we rely on statutory safe harbors, like those set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act in the U.S. and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, to protect against liability for various linking, caching, ranking, recommending, and hosting activities. Legislation or court rulings affecting these safe harbors may adversely affect us and may impose significant operational challenges. There are legislative proposals and pending litigation in the U.S., EU, and around the world that could diminish or eliminate safe harbor protection for websites and online platforms. Our development, use, and commercialization of AI products and services (including our implementation of AI in our offerings and internal systems) could subject us to regulatory action and legal liability, including under specific legislation regulating AI, as well as new applications of existing data protection, cybersecurity, privacy, intellectual property, and other laws.
We are and may continue to be subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, enforcement actions, consent orders, and other forms of regulatory scrutiny and legal liability that could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
We are subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, and other matters. We are also subject to a variety of claims including product warranty, product liability, and consumer protection claims related to product defects, among other litigation, and we may also be subject to claims involving health and safety, hazardous materials usage, other environmental effects, AI training, development, and commercialization, or service disruptions or failures. Claims have been brought, and we expect will continue to be brought, against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright and trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, torts, privacy rights violations, fraud, or other legal theories based on the nature and content of information available on or via our services, the design and effect of our products and services, or due to our involvement in hosting, transmitting, marketing, branding, or providing access to content created by third parties. 
19. 



Alphabet Inc.

For example, in December 2023, a California jury delivered a verdict in Epic Games v. Google finding that Google violated antitrust laws related to Google Play's billing practices. The presiding judge will determine remedies in 2024 and the range of potential remedies vary widely. We plan to appeal. In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice, various U.S. states, and other plaintiffs have filed several antitrust lawsuits about various aspects of our business, including our advertising technologies and practices, the operation and distribution of Google Search, and the operation and distribution of the Android operating system and Play Store. Other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and around the world, including competition enforcers, consumer protection agencies, and data protection authorities, have challenged and may continue to challenge our business practices and compliance with laws and regulations. We are cooperating with these investigations and defending litigation or appealing decisions where appropriate. 
Various laws, regulations, investigations, enforcement lawsuits, and regulatory actions have involved in the past, and may in the future result in substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing monitoring and auditing obligations, changes to our products and services, alterations to our business models and operations, including divestiture, and collateral related civil litigation or other adverse consequences, all of which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Any of these legal proceedings could result in legal costs, diversion of management resources, negative publicity and other harms to our business. Estimating liabilities for our pending proceedings is a complex, fact-specific, and speculative process that requires significant judgment, and the amounts we are ultimately liable for may be less than or exceed our estimates. The resolution of one or more such proceedings has resulted in, and may in the future result in, additional substantial fines, penalties, injunctions, and other sanctions that could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
For additional information about the ongoing material legal proceedings to which we are subject, see Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Privacy, data protection, and data usage regulations are complex and rapidly evolving areas. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Authorities around the world have adopted and are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, data usage, and encryption of user data. Adverse legal rulings, legislation, or regulation have resulted in, and may continue to result in, fines and orders requiring that we change our practices, which have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on how we provide services, harming our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. These laws and regulations are evolving and subject to interpretation, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur substantial costs or harm the quality and operations of our products and services in ways that harm our business. Examples of these laws include: 
•The General Data Protection Regulation and the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulations, which apply to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or the United Kingdom, respectively, or related to products and services that we offer to EU or the United Kingdom users or customers, respectively, or the monitoring of their behavior in the EU or the UK, respectively.
•Various comprehensive U.S. state and foreign privacy laws, which give new data privacy rights to their respective residents (including, in California, a private right of action in the event of a data breach resulting from our failure to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices) and impose significant obligations on controllers and processors of consumer data.
•State laws governing the processing of biometric information, such as the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act and the Texas Capture or Use of Biometric Identifier Act, which impose obligations on businesses that collect or disclose consumer biometric information. 
•Various federal, state, and foreign laws governing how companies provide age appropriate experiences to children and minors, including the collection and processing of children and minor’s data. These include the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, and the United Kingdom Age-Appropriate Design Code, all of which address the use and disclosure of the personal data of children and minors and impose obligations on online services or products directed to or likely to be accessed by children. 
•The California Internet of Things Security Law, which regulates the security of data used in connection with internet-connected devices.
•The EU’s Digital Markets Act, which will require in-scope companies to obtain user consent for combining data across certain products and require search engines to share anonymized data with rival companies, among other changes. 
20. 



Alphabet Inc.

Further, we are subject to evolving laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances we can transfer, process and/or receive personal data, as well as ongoing enforcement actions from supervisory authorities related to cross-border transfers of personal data. The validity of various data transfer mechanisms we currently rely upon remains subject to legal, regulatory, and political developments in both Europe and the U.S., which may require us to adapt our existing arrangements.
We face, and may continue to face, intellectual property and other claims that could be costly to defend, result in significant damage awards or other costs (including indemnification awards), and limit our ability to use certain technologies. 
We, like other internet, technology, and media companies, are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright, trade secrets, and trademarks. Parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease-and-desist orders. In addition, patent-holding companies may frequently seek to generate income from patents they have obtained by bringing claims against us. As we continue to expand our business, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased and may continue to increase as we develop and acquire new products, services, and technologies. 
Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders limiting our ability to sell our products and services in the U.S. or elsewhere, including by preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services in certain jurisdictions. They may also cause us to change our business practices in ways that could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. 
Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to defend against certain intellectual property infringement claims and in some cases indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could result in increased costs for defending such claims or significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and harm our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers arising from intellectual property infringement claims. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims. Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. To the extent such claims are successful, they could harm our business, including our product and service offerings, financial condition, and operating results. 
Expectations relating to ESG considerations could expose us to potential liabilities, increased costs, and reputational harm. 
We are subject to laws, regulations, and other measures that govern a wide range of topics, including those related to matters beyond our core products and services. For instance, new laws, regulations, policies, and international accords relating to ESG matters, including sustainability, climate change, human capital, and diversity, are being developed and formalized in Europe, the U.S., and elsewhere, which may entail specific, target-driven frameworks and/or disclosure requirements. We have implemented robust ESG programs, adopted reporting frameworks and principles, and announced a number of goals and initiatives. The implementation of these goals and initiatives may require considerable investments, and our goals, with all of their contingencies, dependencies, and in certain cases, reliance on third-party verification and/or performance, are complex and ambitious, and may change. We cannot guarantee that our goals and initiatives will be fully realized on the timelines we expect or at all, and projects that are completed as planned may not achieve the results we anticipate. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to adhere to our public statements, comply fully with developing interpretations of ESG laws and regulations, or meet evolving and varied stakeholder expectations and standards could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. 
We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection obligations in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates are affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings in jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, net gains and losses on hedges and related transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in our stock price for shares issued as employee compensation, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, and the application of different provisions of tax laws or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles (including changes in the interpretation of existing laws). Further, if we are 
21. 



Alphabet Inc.

unable or fail to collect taxes on behalf of customers, employees and partners as the withholding agent, we could become liable for taxes that are levied against third parties. 
We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions, on various tax-related assertions, such as transfer-pricing adjustments or permanent-establishment claims. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could harm our financial condition and operating results, require adverse changes to our business practices, or subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and often involves uncertainty. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. 
Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws, or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant changes in ways that could harm our financial condition and operating results. For example, various jurisdictions around the world have enacted or are considering revenue-based taxes such as digital services taxes and other targeted taxes, which could lead to inconsistent and potentially overlapping international tax regimes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) is coordinating negotiations among more than 140 countries with the goal of achieving consensus around substantial changes to international tax policies, including the implementation of a minimum global effective tax rate of 15%. Our effective tax rate and cash tax payments could increase in future years as a result of these changes.
Risks Related to Ownership of our Stock 
We cannot guarantee that any share repurchase program will be fully consummated or will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of our stock prices and could diminish our cash reserves. 
We engage in share repurchases of our Class A and Class C stock from time to time in accordance with authorizations from the Board of Directors of Alphabet. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date and does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. Further, our share repurchases could affect our share trading prices, increase their volatility, reduce our cash reserves and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading prices of our stock. 
The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. 
Our Class B stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A stock has one vote per share, and our Class C stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2023, Larry Page and Sergey Brin beneficially owned approximately 86.5% of our outstanding Class B stock, which represented approximately 51.5% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Through their stock ownership, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could continue Larry and Sergey’s current relative voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. The share repurchases made pursuant to our repurchase program may also affect Larry and Sergey’s relative voting power. This concentrated control limits or severely restricts other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial, which could reduce the market price of our Class A stock and our Class C stock. 
Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. 
Provisions in Alphabet’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: 
•Our Board of Directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director.
•Our stockholders may not act by written consent, which makes it difficult to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting.
•Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates.
22. 



Alphabet Inc.

•Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. 
•Our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock, which makes it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. 
As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the Board of Directors has approved the transaction. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. 
The trading price for our Class A stock and non-voting Class C stock may continue to be volatile. 
The trading price of our stock has at times experienced significant volatility and may continue to be volatile. In addition to the factors discussed in this report, the trading prices of our Class A stock and Class C stock have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate widely, in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others, the activities of our peers and changes in broader economic and political conditions around the world. These broad market and industry factors could harm the market price of our Class A stock and our Class C stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. 
General Risks 
Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. 
Our operating results have fluctuated, and may in the future fluctuate, as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control, including the cyclical nature and seasonality in our business and geopolitical events. As a result, comparing our operating results (including our expenses as a percentage of our revenues) on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and our past results should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. Consequently, our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. 
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and operating results. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of such potential strategic arrangements, which could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Some of the areas where we face risks include: 
•diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic arrangements; 
•failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of a transaction;
•failure to successfully integrate the acquired operations, technologies, services, and personnel (including cultural integration and retention of employees) and further develop the acquired business or technology; 
•implementation of controls (or remediation of control deficiencies), procedures, and policies at the acquired company; 
•integration of the acquired company’s accounting and other administrative systems, and the coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions;
•transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms;
•in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; 
•failure to accomplish commercial, strategic or financial objectives with respect to investments, joint ventures, and other strategic arrangements;
•failure to realize the value of investments and joint ventures due to a lack of liquidity;
23. 



Alphabet Inc.

•liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, data privacy and security issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, warranty claims, product liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; and
•litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties.
Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic arrangements could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. 
Our acquisitions and other strategic arrangements could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic arrangements may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain and continue to adapt our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow or operate effectively. 
Our performance and future success depends in large part upon the continued service of key technical leads as well as members of our senior management team. For instance, Sundar Pichai is critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries and plays an important role in the development of our technology, maintaining our culture, and setting our strategic direction. 
Our ability to compete effectively and our future success depend on our continuing to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted, and may continue to target, our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Restrictive immigration policy and regulatory changes may also affect our ability to hire, mobilize, or retain some of our global talent. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies.
In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows and evolves, we may need to adapt our corporate culture and work environments to ever-changing circumstances, such as during times of a natural disaster or pandemic, and these changes could affect our ability to compete effectively or have an adverse effect on our corporate culture. Under our hybrid work models, we may experience increased costs and/or disruption, in addition to potential effects on our ability to operate effectively and maintain our corporate culture. 
ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
Not applicable.
ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY
We maintain a comprehensive process for identifying, assessing, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats as part of our broader risk management system and processes. We obtain input, as appropriate, for our cybersecurity risk management program on the security industry and threat trends from multiple external experts and internal threat intelligence teams. Teams of dedicated privacy, safety, and security professionals oversee cybersecurity risk management and mitigation, incident prevention, detection, and remediation. Leadership for these teams are professionals with deep cybersecurity expertise across multiple industries, including our Vice President of Privacy, Safety, and Security Engineering. Our executive leadership team, along with input from the above teams, are responsible for our overall enterprise risk management system and processes and regularly consider cybersecurity risks in the context of other material risks to the company.
As part of our cybersecurity risk management system, our incident management teams track and log privacy and security incidents across Alphabet, our vendors, and other third-party service providers to remediate and resolve any such incidents. Significant incidents are reviewed regularly by a cross-functional working group to determine whether further escalation is appropriate. Any incident assessed as potentially being or potentially becoming material is immediately escalated for further assessment, and then reported to designated members of our senior management. We consult with outside counsel as appropriate, including on materiality analysis and disclosure matters, and our 
24. 



Alphabet Inc.

senior management makes the final materiality determinations and disclosure and other compliance decisions. Our management apprises Alphabet’s independent public accounting firm of matters and any relevant developments.
The Audit and Compliance Committee has oversight responsibility for risks and incidents relating to cybersecurity threats, including compliance with disclosure requirements, cooperation with law enforcement, and related effects on financial and other risks, and it reports any findings and recommendations, as appropriate, to the full Board for consideration. Senior management regularly discusses cyber risks and trends and, should they arise, any material incidents with the Audit and Compliance Committee. Internal Audit maintains a dedicated cybersecurity auditing team that independently tests our cybersecurity controls. 
Our business strategy, results of operations and financial condition have not been materially affected by risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of previously identified cybersecurity incidents, but we cannot provide assurance that they will not be materially affected in the future by such risks or any future material incidents. For more information on our cybersecurity related risks, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We own and lease office facilities and data centers around the world, primarily in Asia, Europe, and North America. We believe our existing facilities are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.
ITEM 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, see Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
PART II
ITEM 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
As of October 2, 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. Our Class A stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since August 19, 2004, and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. Our Class B stock is neither listed nor traded. Our Class C stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since April 3, 2014.
Holders of Record
As of December 31, 2023, there were approximately 7,305 and 1,757 stockholders of record of our Class A stock and Class C stock, respectively. Because many of our shares of Class A stock and Class C stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of December 31, 2023, there were approximately 59 stockholders of record of our Class B stock.
Dividend Policy
We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long-term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace, and form of capital return to stockholders.
25. 



Alphabet Inc.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class A and Class C stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2023: 

Period | Total Number of Class A Shares Purchased (in thousands)(1) | Total Number of Class C Shares Purchased (in thousands)(1) | | Average Price Paid per Class A Share(2) | Average Price Paid per Class C Share(2) | | Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(in thousands)(1) | Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (in millions)
October 1 - 31 | 9,923 | | 38,687 | | $ | 134.66 | | $ | 135.65 | 48,610 | $ | 45,736
November 1 - 30 | 9,197 | | 28,198 | | $ | 134.53 | | $ | 135.16 | 37,395 | $ | 40,725
December 1 - 31 | 7,502 | | 24,760 | | $ | 135.76 | | $ | 136.37 | 32,262 | $ | 36,347
Total | 26,622 | | 91,645 | | | | | 118,267 | 

(1)    Repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. For additional information related to share repurchases, see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(2)    Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases.
26. 



Alphabet Inc.

Stock Performance Graphs
The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class A's cumulative five-year total stockholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2018, to December 31, 2023. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE 5-YEAR TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS A COMMON STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2018, in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. 
Copyright© 2024 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.
27. 



Alphabet Inc.

The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class C's cumulative five-year total stockholder return on capital stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our Class C capital stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2018, to December 31, 2023. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE 5-YEAR TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS C CAPITAL STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2018, in stock or in index, including reinvestment of dividends.
Copyright© 2024 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.
ITEM 6.[Reserved]
28. 



Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with “Note about Forward-Looking Statements,” Part I, Item 1 "Business," Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors," and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
The following section generally discusses 2023 results compared to 2022 results. Discussion of 2022 results compared to 2021 results to the extent not included in this report can be found in Item 7 of our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Understanding Alphabet’s Financial Results
Alphabet is a collection of businesses — the largest of which is Google. We report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud; we also report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. For additional information on our segments, see Part I, Item 1 Business and Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect
The following long-term trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to affect our future results:
•Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves.
The continuing evolution of the online world has contributed to the growth of our business and our revenues since inception. We expect that this evolution will continue to benefit our business and our revenues, although at a slower pace than we have experienced historically, in particular after the outsized growth in our advertising revenues during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we face increasing competition for user engagement and advertisers, which may affect our revenues.
•Users continue to access our products and services using diverse devices and modalities, which allows for new advertising formats that may benefit our revenues but adversely affect our margins.
Our users are accessing our products and services via diverse devices and modalities, such as smartphones, wearables, connected TVs, and smart home devices, and want to be able to be connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. We are focused on expanding our products and services to stay in front of these trends in order to maintain and grow our business.
We benefit from advertising revenues generated from different channels, including mobile, and newer advertising formats. The margins from these channels and newer products have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Additionally, as the market for a particular device type or modality matures, our advertising revenues may be affected. For example, changing dynamics within the global smartphone market, such as increased market saturation in developed countries, can affect our mobile advertising revenues.
We expect TAC paid to our distribution partners and Google Network partners to increase as our revenues grow and TAC as a percentage of our advertising revenues ("TAC rate") to be affected by changes in device mix; geographic mix; partner agreement terms; partner mix; the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points; product mix; the relative revenue growth rates of advertising revenues from different channels; and revenue share terms.
We expect these trends to continue to affect our revenues and put pressure on our margins.
•As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings, which may affect our monetization.
As interactions between users and advertisers change, and as online user behavior evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings to serve these changing needs, which may affect our monetization. For example, revenues from ads on YouTube and Google Play monetize at a lower rate than our traditional search ads. We also expect to continue to incorporate AI innovations into our products, such as AI in Search, that could affect our monetization trends. When developing new products and services we generally focus first on user experience and then on monetization.
•As users in developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue to increase, and may require continued investments. In addition, movements in foreign exchange rates affect such revenues. 
29. 



Alphabet Inc.

The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, such as India. We continue to invest heavily and develop localized versions of our products and advertising programs relevant to our users in these markets. This has led to a trend of increased revenues from emerging markets. We expect that our results will continue to be affected by our performance in these markets, particularly as low-cost mobile devices become more available. This trend could affect our revenues as developing markets initially monetize at a lower rate than more mature markets.
International revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a foreign exchange risk management program designed to reduce our exposure to these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect on our revenues and earnings.
•The revenues that we derive beyond advertising are increasing and may adversely affect our margins.
Revenues from cloud, consumer subscriptions, platforms, and devices, which may have differing characteristics than our advertising revenues, have grown over time, and we expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our products and services. The margins on these revenues vary significantly and are generally lower than the margins on our advertising revenues. For example, sales of our devices adversely affect our consolidated margins due to pressures on pricing and higher cost of sales.
•As we continue to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in operating and capital expenditures.
We continue to make significant research and development investments in areas of strategic focus as we seek to develop new, innovative offerings, improve our existing offerings, and rapidly and responsibly deploy AI across our businesses. We also expect to increase, relative to 2023, our investment in our technical infrastructure, including servers, network equipment, and data centers, to support the growth of our business and our long-term initiatives, in particular in support of AI products and services. In addition, acquisitions and strategic investments contribute to the breadth and depth of our offerings, expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas, and build strong partnerships around strategic initiatives.
•We continue to face an evolving regulatory environment, and we are subject to claims, lawsuits, investigations, and other forms of potential legal liability, which could affect our business practices and financial results.
Changes in social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics and related legal matters, including investigations, lawsuits, and regulatory actions, have resulted in fines and caused us to change our business practices. As these global trends continue, our cost of doing business may increase, our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products or services may be limited, and we may need to change our business practices to comply with evolving regulatory and legal matters. Examples include the antitrust complaints filed by the U.S. Department of Justice and a number of state Attorneys General; legislative proposals and pending litigation in the U.S., EU, and around the world that could diminish or eliminate safe harbor protection for websites and online platforms; and the Digital Markets Act and Digital Services Act in Europe and various legislative proposals in the U.S. focused on large technology platforms. For additional information, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
•Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them.
Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue hiring talented employees around the globe and to provide competitive compensation programs. For additional information, see Culture and Workforce in Part I, Item 1 Business of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Revenues and Monetization Metrics
We generate revenues by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide enterprise customers of all sizes with infrastructure and platform services as well as communication and collaboration tools; sales of other products and services, such as apps and in-app purchases, and devices; and fees received for consumer subscription-based products. For additional information on how we recognize revenue, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
In addition to the long-term trends and their financial effect on our business discussed above, fluctuations in our revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by a combination of general factors, including:
•changes in foreign currency exchange rates;
30. 



Alphabet Inc.

•changes in pricing, such as those resulting from changes in fee structures, discounts, and customer incentives;
•general economic conditions and various external dynamics, including geopolitical events, regulations, and other measures and their effect on advertiser, consumer, and enterprise spending; 
•new product and service launches; and
•seasonality.
Additionally, fluctuations in our revenues generated from advertising ("Google advertising"), revenues from other sources ("Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues"), Google Cloud, and Other Bets revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by other factors unique to each set of revenues, as described below.
Google Services
Google Services revenues consist of Google advertising as well as Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues.
Google Advertising
Google advertising revenues are comprised of the following: 
•Google Search & other, which includes revenues generated on Google search properties (including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.), and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play;
•YouTube ads, which includes revenues generated on YouTube properties; and
•Google Network, which includes revenues generated on Google Network properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.
We use certain metrics to track how well traffic across various properties is monetized as it relates to our advertising revenues: paid clicks and cost-per-click pertain to traffic on Google Search & other properties, while impressions and cost-per-impression pertain to traffic on our Google Network properties.
Paid clicks represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users on Google search properties and other Google owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play. Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.
Impressions include impressions displayed to users on Google Network properties participating primarily in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager. Cost-per-impression is defined as impression-based and click-based revenues divided by our total number of impressions, and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each impression displayed to users. 
As our business evolves, we periodically review, refine, and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks and the number of impressions, and for identifying the revenues generated by the corresponding click and impression activity.
Fluctuations in our advertising revenues, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google Search & other properties and the change in impressions and cost-per-impression on Google Network properties and the correlation between these items have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as:
•advertiser competition for keywords;
•changes in advertising quality, formats, delivery or policy;
•changes in device mix; 
•seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends, such as traditional retail seasonality; and
•traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various verticals and channels.
31. 



Alphabet Inc.

Google Subscriptions, Platforms, and Devices
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues are comprised of the following:
•consumer subscriptions, which primarily include revenues from YouTube services, such YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket, as well as Google One;
•platforms, which primarily include revenues from Google Play from the sales of apps and in-app purchases;
•devices, which primarily include sales of the Pixel family of devices; and
•other products and services.
Fluctuations in our Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as changes in customer usage and demand, number of subscribers, and fluctuations in the timing of product launches.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud revenues are comprised of the following:
•Google Cloud Platform, which generates consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, and other services. These services provide access to solutions such as cybersecurity, databases, analytics, and AI offerings including our AI infrastructure, Vertex AI platform, and Duet AI for Google Cloud;
•Google Workspace, which includes subscriptions for cloud-based communication and collaboration tools for enterprises, such as Calendar, Gmail, Docs, Drive, and Meet, with integrated features like Duet AI in Google Workspace; and
•other enterprise services.
Fluctuations in our Google Cloud revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as customer usage.
Other Bets
Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of healthcare-related services and internet services.
Costs and Expenses 
Our cost structure has two components: cost of revenues and operating expenses. Our operating expenses include costs related to R&D, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions. Certain of our costs and expenses, including those associated with the operation of our technical infrastructure as well as components of our operating expenses, are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate to changes in revenue. Additionally, fluctuations in compensation expenses may not directly correlate with changes in headcount, in particular due to annual stock-based compensation (SBC) awards that generally vest over four years. 
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues is comprised of TAC and other costs of revenues.
•TAC includes: 
◦amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers; and
◦amounts paid to Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed on their properties.
•Other cost of revenues primarily includes:
◦compensation expense related to our data centers and other operations such as content review and customer and product support;
◦content acquisition costs, which are payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);
◦depreciation expense related to our technical infrastructure; and
◦inventory and other costs related to the devices we sell.
32. 



Alphabet Inc.

TAC as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network properties are significantly higher than TAC as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Search & other properties, because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network partners.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses are generally incurred during our normal course of business, which we categorize as either R&D, sales and marketing, or general and administrative.
The main components of our R&D expenses are:
•compensation expenses for engineering and technical employees responsible for R&D related to our existing and new products and services; 
•depreciation; and
•third-party services fees primarily relating to consulting and outsourced services in support of our engineering and product development efforts.
The main components of our sales and marketing expenses are:
•compensation expenses for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions; and
•spending relating to our advertising and promotional activities in support of our products and services.
The main components of our general and administrative expenses are:
•compensation expenses for employees in finance, human resources, information technology, legal, and other administrative support functions; 
•expenses relating to legal matters, including certain fines and settlements; and 
•third-party services fees, including audit, consulting, outside legal, and other outsourced administrative services.
Other Income (Expense), Net 
OI&E, net primarily consists of interest income (expense), the effect of foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net gains (losses) and impairment on our marketable and non-marketable securities, performance fees, and income (loss) and impairment from our equity method investments. 
For additional information, including how we account for our investments and factors that can drive fluctuations in the value of our investments, see Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 as well as Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Provision for Income Taxes
Provision for income taxes represents the estimated amount of federal, state, and foreign income taxes incurred in the U.S. and the many jurisdictions in which we operate. The provision includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties.
For additional information, including a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to our effective tax rate, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
33. 



Alphabet Inc.

Executive Overview
The following table summarizes our consolidated financial results (in millions, except for per share information and percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31, | | | | 
 | 2022 | | 2023 | | $ Change | | % Change
Consolidated revenues | $ | 282,836 | | | $ | 307,394 | | | $ | 24,558 | 9 | %
Change in consolidated constant currency revenues(1) | | | | | | | 10 | %
Cost of revenues | $ | 126,203 | | | $ | 133,332 | | | $ | 7,129 | 6 | %
Operating expenses | $ | 81,791 | | | $ | 89,769 | | | $ | 7,978 | 10 | %
Operating income | $ | 74,842 | | | $ | 84,293 | | | $ | 9,451 | 13 | %
Operating margin | 26 | % | | 27 | % | | | | 1 | % 
Other income (expense), net | $ | (3,514) | | | $ | 1,424 | | | $ | 4,938 | NM
Net income | $ | 59,972 | | | $ | 73,795 | | | $ | 13,823 | 23 | %
Diluted EPS | $ | 4.56 | | | $ | 5.80 | | | $ | 1.24 | 27 | %

NM = Not Meaningful
(1)    See "Use of Non-GAAP Constant Currency Information" below for details relating to our use of constant currency information. 
•Revenues were $307.4 billion, an increase of 9% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in Google Services revenues of $19.0 billion, or 8%, and an increase in Google Cloud revenues of $6.8 billion, or 26%. 
•Total constant currency revenues, which exclude the effect of hedging, increased 10% year over year.
•Cost of revenues was $133.3 billion, an increase of 6% year over year, primarily driven by increases in content acquisition costs, compensation expenses, and TAC. The increase in compensation expenses included charges related to employee severance associated with the reduction in our workforce. Additionally, cost of revenues benefited from a reduction in depreciation due to the change in estimated useful lives of our servers and network equipment.
•Operating expenses were $89.8 billion, an increase of 10% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses and charges related to our office space optimization efforts. The increase in compensation expenses was largely the result of charges related to employee severance associated with the reduction in our workforce and an increase in SBC expense. Operating expenses benefited from the change in the estimated useful lives of our servers and certain network equipment.
Other Information:
•In January 2023, we announced a reduction of our workforce, and as a result we recorded employee severance and related charges of $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023. In addition, we are taking actions to optimize our global office space. As a result, exit charges recorded during the year ended December 31, 2023, were $1.8 billion. In addition to these exit charges, for the year ended December 31, 2023, we incurred $269 million in accelerated rent and accelerated depreciation. For additional information, see Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
•In January 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment, resulting in a change in the estimated useful life of our servers and certain network equipment to six years. The effect of this change was a reduction in depreciation expense of $3.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, recognized primarily in cost of revenues and R&D expenses. For additional information, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
34. 



Alphabet Inc.

•On July 21, 2023, the IRS announced a rule change allowing taxpayers to temporarily apply the regulations in effect prior to 2022 related to U.S. federal foreign tax credits. This announcement applies to foreign taxes paid or accrued in the fiscal years 2022 and 2023. A cumulative one-time adjustment applicable to the prior period for this tax rule change was recorded in 2023 and is reflected in our effective tax rate of 13.9% for the year ended December 31, 2023.
•Repurchases of Class A and Class C shares were $62.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023. For additional information, see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
•Operating cash flow was $101.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023.
•Capital expenditures, which primarily reflected investments in technical infrastructure, were $32.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023.
•As of December 31, 2023, we had 182,502 employees.
Financial Results
Revenues
The following table presents revenues by type (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Google Search & other | $ | 162,450 | | | $ | 175,033
YouTube ads | 29,243 | | | 31,510 | 
Google Network | 32,780 | | | 31,312 | 
Google advertising | 224,473 | | | 237,855 | 
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices | 29,055 | | | 34,688 | 
Google Services total | 253,528 | | | 272,543 | 
Google Cloud | 26,280 | | | 33,088 | 
Other Bets | 1,068 | | | 1,527 | 
Hedging gains (losses) | 1,960 | | | 236 | 
Total revenues | $ | 282,836 | | | $ | 307,394

Google Services
Google advertising revenues
Google Search & other
Google Search & other revenues increased $12.6 billion from 2022 to 2023. The overall growth was driven by interrelated factors including increases in search queries resulting from growth in user adoption and usage on mobile devices; growth in advertiser spending; and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery.
YouTube ads
YouTube ads revenues increased $2.3 billion from 2022 to 2023. The growth was driven by our brand and direct response advertising products, both of which benefited from increased spending by our advertisers.
Google Network
Google Network revenues decreased $1.5 billion from 2022 to 2023, primarily driven by a decrease in Google Ad Manager and AdSense revenues.
35. 



Alphabet Inc.

Monetization Metrics
The following table presents changes in monetization metrics for Google Search & other revenues (paid clicks and cost-per-click) and Google Network revenues (impressions and cost-per-impression), expressed as a percentage, from 2022 to 2023:

Google Search & other | 
Paid clicks change | 7 | %
Cost-per-click change | 1 | %
Google Network | 
Impressions change | (5) | %
Cost-per-impression change | 0 | %

Changes in paid clicks and impressions are driven by a number of interrelated factors, including changes in advertiser spending; ongoing product and policy changes; and, as it relates to paid clicks, fluctuations in search queries resulting from changes in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices.
Changes in cost-per-click and cost-per-impression are driven by a number of interrelated factors including changes in device mix, geographic mix, advertiser spending, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, property mix, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues increased $5.6 billion from 2022 to 2023 primarily driven by growth in subscriptions, largely for YouTube services. The growth in YouTube services was primarily due to an increase in paid subscribers.
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues increased $1.0 billion from 2021 to 2022 primarily driven by growth in subscription and device revenues, partially offset by a decrease in platform revenues. The growth in subscriptions was largely for YouTube services, primarily due to an increase in paid subscribers. The growth in device revenues was primarily driven by increased sales of Pixel devices. The decrease in platform revenues was primarily due to Google Play, driven by the fee structure changes we announced in 2021 as well as a decrease in buyer spending. Additionally, the overall increase in Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues was adversely affected by the unfavorable effect of foreign currency exchange rates.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud revenues increased $6.8 billion from 2022 to 2023. Growth was primarily driven by Google Cloud Platform followed by Google Workspace offerings. Google Cloud's infrastructure and platform services were the largest drivers of growth in Google Cloud Platform.
Revenues by Geography
The following table presents revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the addresses of our customers:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
United States | 48 | % | | 47 | %
EMEA | 29 | % | | 30 | %
APAC | 16 | % | | 17 | %
Other Americas | 6 | % | | 6 | %
Hedging gains (losses) | 1 | % | | 0 | %

For additional information, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
36. 



Alphabet Inc.

Use of Non-GAAP Constant Currency Information
International revenues, which represent a significant portion of our revenues, are generally transacted in multiple currencies and therefore are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
The effect of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons. We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues ("constant currency revenues") and non-GAAP percentage change in constant currency revenues ("percentage change in constant currency revenues") for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results helps improve the ability to understand our performance, because it excludes the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.
Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as revenues excluding the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements ("FX Effect") as well as hedging activities, which are recognized at the consolidated level. We use constant currency revenues to determine the constant currency revenue percentage change on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior year comparable period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging effects realized in the current period.
Constant currency revenue percentage change is calculated by determining the change in current period revenues over prior year comparable period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior year comparable period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues of both periods.
These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.
The following table presents the foreign currency exchange effect on international revenues and total revenues (in millions, except percentages):

 | | | | | Year Ended December 31, 2023
 | | | | | | | | % Change from Prior Period
 | Year Ended December 31, | | Less FX Effect | | Constant Currency Revenues | | As Reported | Less Hedging Effect | | Less FX Effect | | Constant Currency Revenues
 | 2022 | | 2023 | | | | | 
United States | $ | 134,814 | | | $ | 146,286 | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 146,286 | | | 9 | % | | | 0 | % | | 9 | %
EMEA | 82,062 | | | 91,038 | | | 460 | | 90,578 | | | 11 | % | | | | 1 | % | 10 | %
APAC | 47,024 | | | 51,514 | | | (1,759) | | 53,273 | | | 10 | % | | | | (3) | % | 13 | %
Other Americas | 16,976 | | | 18,320 | | | (654) | | 18,974 | | | 8 | % | | | | (4) | % | 12 | %
Revenues, excluding hedging effect | 280,876 | | | 307,158 | | | (1,953) | | 309,111 | | | 9 | % | | | | (1) | % | 10 | %
Hedging gains (losses) | 1,960 | | | 236 | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Total revenues(1) | $ | 282,836 | | | $ | 307,394 | | | | $ | 309,111 | | | 9 | % | | 0 | % | (1) | % | | 10 | %

(1)Total constant currency revenues of $309.1 billion for 2023 increased $28.2 billion compared to $280.9 billion in revenues, excluding hedging effect, for 2022.
EMEA revenue growth was favorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Euro, partially offset by the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Turkish lira.
APAC revenue growth was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Japanese yen.
Other Americas revenue growth was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Argentine peso.
37. 



Alphabet Inc.

Costs and Expenses
Cost of Revenues
The following table presents cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
TAC | $ | 45,566 | | | $ | 48,955 | | | $ | 50,886 
Other cost of revenues | 65,373 | | | 77,248 | | | 82,446 | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 110,939 | | | $ | 126,203 | | | $ | 133,332
Total cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues | 43 | % | | 45 | % | | 43 | %

Cost of revenues increased $7.1 billion from 2022 to 2023 due to an increase in other cost of revenues and TAC of $5.2 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively.
The increase in TAC from 2022 to 2023 was largely due to an increase in TAC paid to distribution partners, primarily driven by growth in revenues subject to TAC. The TAC rate decreased from 21.8% to 21.4% from 2022 to 2023 primarily due to a revenue mix shift from Google Network properties to Google Search & other properties. The TAC rate on Google Search & other revenues and the TAC rate on Google Network revenues were both substantially consistent from 2022 to 2023.
The increase in other cost of revenues from 2022 to 2023 was primarily due to increases in content acquisition costs, largely for YouTube, and compensation expenses, which included $479 million of charges related to employee severance associated with the reduction in our workforce. Additionally, other cost of revenues benefited from a reduction in depreciation expense due to the change in estimated useful lives of our servers and network equipment.
The increase in other cost of revenues of $11.9 billion from 2021 to 2022 was primarily due to increases in device costs, compensation expenses, depreciation, and equipment-related expenses.
Research and Development
The following table presents R&D expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Research and development expenses | $ | 39,500 | | | $ | 45,427
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues | 14 | % | | 15 | %

R&D expenses increased $5.9 billion from 2022 to 2023 primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses of $2.9 billion, $870 million in charges related to our office space optimization efforts, and an increase in depreciation expense of $722 million. The $2.9 billion increase in compensation expenses was largely the result of a 4% increase in average headcount, after adjusting for roles affected by the reduction in our workforce, and an increase in SBC expense. Additionally, the increase in compensation expenses included $848 million in employee severance charges associated with the reduction in our workforce. The $722 million increase in depreciation expense reflected an offsetting benefit of the change in the estimated useful lives of our servers and network equipment.
Sales and Marketing
The following table presents sales and marketing expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Sales and marketing expenses | $ | 26,567 | | | $ | 27,917
Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues | 9 | % | | 9 | %

Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.4 billion from 2022 to 2023, primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses of $1.6 billion, partially offset by a decrease in advertising and promotional activities of $441 million. The $1.6 billion increase in compensation expenses was largely the result of $497 million in employee severance charges associated with the reduction in our workforce in addition to a combination of other factors, none of which were individually significant.
38. 



Alphabet Inc.

General and Administrative
The following table presents general and administrative expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
General and administrative expenses | $ | 15,724 | | | $ | 16,425
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues | 6 | % | | 5 | %

General and administrative expenses increased $701 million from 2022 to 2023, primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses of $416 million, which was largely the result of $264 million in employee severance charges associated with the reduction in our workforce in addition to a combination of other factors, none of which were individually significant. 
Segment Profitability
The following table presents segment operating income (loss) (in millions).

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Operating income (loss): | | | 
Google Services | $ | 82,699 | | | $ | 95,858
Google Cloud | (1,922) | | | 1,716 | 
Other Bets | (4,636) | | | (4,095) | 
Alphabet-level activities(1) | (1,299) | | | (9,186) | 
Total income from operations | $ | 74,842 | | | $ | 84,293

(1)In addition to the costs included in Alphabet-level activities, hedging gains (losses) related to revenue were $2.0 billion and $236 million in 2022 and 2023, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2023, Alphabet-level activities include charges related to the reduction in force and our office space optimization efforts totaling $3.9 billion. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2023, we incurred $269 million in accelerated rent and accelerated depreciation. For additional information relating to our workforce reduction and other initiatives, see Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional information relating to our segments, see Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Google Services
Google Services operating income increased $13.2 billion from 2022 to 2023. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by an increase in revenues, partially offset by an increase in content acquisition costs and compensation expenses including an increase in SBC expense. Additionally, operating income benefited from a reduction in costs driven by the change in the estimated useful lives of our servers and certain network equipment.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud operating income of $1.7 billion for 2023 compared to an operating loss of $1.9 billion for 2022 represents an increase of $3.6 billion. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by an increase in revenues, partially offset by an increase in compensation expenses largely driven by headcount growth. Additionally, operating income benefited from a reduction in costs driven by the change in the estimated useful lives of our servers and certain network equipment.
Other Bets
Other Bets operating loss decreased $541 million from 2022 to 2023 primarily due to growth in revenues as well as a reduction in valuation-based compensation liabilities related to Other Bet companies.
Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table presents OI&E, (in millions):
39. 



Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Interest income | $ | 2,174 | | | $ | 3,865
Interest expense | (357) | | | (308) | 
Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net | (654) | | | (1,238) | 
Gain (loss) on debt securities, net | (2,064) | | | (1,215) | 
Gain (loss) on equity securities, net | (3,455) | | | 392 | 
Performance fees | 798 | | | 257 | 
Income (loss) and impairment from equity method investments, net | (337) | | | (628) | 
Other | 381 | | | 299 | 
Other income (expense), net | $ | (3,514) | | | $ | 1,424

OI&E, net increased $4.9 billion from 2022 to 2023. The increase was primarily due to fluctuations in the value of equity securities reflecting market driven changes in the value of our marketable equity securities, investment specific event driven changes in our non-marketable equity securities, and increased interest income due to interest rates. 
For additional information, see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Provision for Income Taxes
The following table presents provision for income taxes (in millions, except for effective tax rate):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Income before provision for income taxes | $ | 71,328 | | | $ | 85,717
Provision for income taxes | $ | 11,356 | | | $ | 11,922
Effective tax rate | 15.9 | % | | 13.9 | %

In 2023, the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) issued a rule change allowing taxpayers to temporarily apply the regulations in effect prior to 2022 related to U.S. federal foreign tax credits, as well as a separate rule change with interim guidance on the capitalization and amortization of R&D expenses. A cumulative one-time adjustment applicable to the prior period for these tax rule changes was recorded in 2023.
The effective tax rate decreased from 2022 to 2023, reflecting the effect of the two tax rule changes described above, particularly the change related to foreign tax credits. The effect of these tax rule changes was partially offset by changes in uncertain tax benefits and a decrease in the U.S. federal Foreign Derived Intangible Income tax deduction.
The OECD is coordinating negotiations among more than 140 countries with the goal of achieving consensus around substantial changes to international tax policies, including the implementation of a minimum global effective tax rate of 15%. While various countries have implemented the legislation as of January 1, 2024, we do not expect a resulting material change to our income tax provision for the 2024 fiscal year. As additional jurisdictions enact such legislation, we expect our effective tax rate and cash tax payments could increase in future years. 
Financial Condition
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
As of December 31, 2023, we had $110.9 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, and marketable equity securities.
Sources, Uses of Cash and Related Trends
Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from operations. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long-term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace, and form of capital return to stockholders.
40. 



Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents our cash flows (in millions):
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 91,495 | | $ | 101,746 
Net cash used in investing activities | $ | (20,298) | | $ | (27,063)
Net cash used in financing activities | $ | (69,757) | | $ | (72,093)

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Our largest source of cash provided by operations are advertising revenues generated by Google Search & other properties, Google Network properties, and YouTube properties. In Google Services, we also generate cash through consumer subscriptions and the sale of apps and in-app purchases and devices. In Google Cloud we generate cash through consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, collaboration tools, and other cloud services.
Our primary uses of cash from operating activities include payments to distribution and Google Network partners, to employees for compensation, and to content providers. Other uses of cash from operating activities include payments to suppliers for devices, to tax authorities for income taxes, and other general corporate expenditures.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2022 to 2023 due to the increase in cash received from customers, partially offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses.
Cash Used in Investing Activities
Cash provided by investing activities consists primarily of maturities and sales of investments in marketable and non-marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of purchases of marketable and non-marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment, and payments for acquisitions.
Net cash used in investing activities increased from 2022 to 2023 due to a decrease in maturities and sales of marketable securities, partially offset by a decrease in payments for acquisitions.
Cash Used in Financing Activities
Cash provided by financing activities consists primarily of proceeds from issuance of debt and proceeds from the sale of interests in consolidated entities. Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of repurchases of stock, net payments related to stock-based award activities, and repayments of debt.
Net cash used in financing activities increased from 2022 to 2023 due to an increase in repurchases of stock.
Liquidity and Material Cash Requirements
We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash flows from operations and financing activities to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.
Capital Expenditures and Leases
We make investments in land and buildings for data centers and offices and information technology assets through purchases of property and equipment and lease arrangements to provide capacity for the growth of our services and products.
Capital Expenditures
Our capital investments in property and equipment consist primarily of the following major categories:
•technical infrastructure, which consists of our investments in servers and network equipment for computing, storage, and networking requirements for ongoing business activities, including AI, (collectively referred to as our information technology assets) and data center land and building construction; and
•office facilities, ground-up development projects, and building improvements (also referred to as "fit-outs").
Construction in progress consists primarily of technical infrastructure and office facilities which have not yet been placed in service. The time frame from date of purchase to placement in service of these assets may extend from months to years. For example, our data center construction projects are generally multi-year projects with multiple phases, where we acquire land and buildings, construct buildings, and secure and install information technology assets.
41. 



Alphabet Inc.

During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023, we spent $31.5 billion and $32.3 billion on capital expenditures, respectively. We expect to increase, relative to 2023, our investment in our technical infrastructure, including servers, network equipment, and data centers, to support the growth of our business and our long-term initiatives, in particular in support of AI products and services. Depreciation of our property and equipment commences when the deployment of such assets are completed and are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated. For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023, our depreciation on property and equipment were $13.5 billion and $11.9 billion, respectively. 
Leases 
For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023, we recognized total operating lease assets of $4.4 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, the amount of total future lease payments under operating leases, which had a weighted average remaining lease term of eight years, was $17.7 billion, of which $3.2 billion is short-term. As of December 31, 2023, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future short-term and long-term lease payments of $657 million and $3.3 billion, that are not yet recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between 2024 and 2026 with non-cancelable lease terms of one to 25 years. 
For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023, our operating lease expenses (including variable lease costs) were $3.7 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively. Finance lease costs were not material for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023. For additional information, see Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Financing
We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2023, we had no commercial paper outstanding.
As of December 31, 2023, we had $10.0 billion of revolving credit facilities, $4.0 billion expiring in April 2024 and $6.0 billion expiring in April 2028. The interest rates for all credit facilities are determined based on a formula using certain market rates, as well as our progress toward the achievement of certain sustainability goals. No amounts have been borrowed under the credit facilities.
As of December 31, 2023, we had senior unsecured notes outstanding with a total carrying value of $12.9 billion with short-term and long-term future interest payments of $214 million and $3.6 billion, respectively. For additional information, see Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We primarily utilize contract manufacturers for the assembly of our servers used in our technical infrastructure and devices we sell. We have agreements where we may purchase components directly from suppliers and then supply these components to contract manufacturers for use in the assembly of the servers and devices. Certain of these arrangements result in a portion of the cash received from and paid to the contract manufacturers to be presented as financing activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Share Repurchase Program
During 2023 we repurchased and subsequently retired 528 million shares for $62.2 billion.
In April 2023, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $70.0 billion of its Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2023, $36.3 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases.
The following table presents Class A and Class C shares repurchased and subsequently retired (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31, 2022 | Year Ended December 31, 2023
 | Shares | Amount | | Shares | | Amount
Class A share repurchases | 61 | $ | 6,719 | | | 78 | | $ | 9,316 
Class C share repurchases | 469 | 52,577 | | | 450 | | 52,868 | 
Total share repurchases(1) | 530 | $ | 59,296 | | | 528 | | $ | 62,184

(1) Shares repurchased include unsettled repurchases as of December 31, 2023.
For additional information, see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
42. 



Alphabet Inc.

European Commission Fines
In 2017, 2018 and 2019, the EC announced decisions that certain actions taken by Google infringed European competition law and imposed fines of €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017), €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018), and €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019), respectively. On September 14, 2022, the General Court reduced the 2018 fine from €4.3 billion to €4.1 billion. We subsequently filed an appeal to the European Court of Justice.
While each EC decision is under appeal, we included the fines in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines. For additional information, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Taxes
As of December 31, 2023, we had income taxes payable of $4.2 billion, of which $2.1 billion was short-term, related to a one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). As permitted by the Tax Act, we will pay the transition tax in annual interest-free installments through 2025. We also have long-term taxes payable of $6.3 billion primarily related to uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2023.
Purchase Commitments and Other Contractual Obligations
As of December 31, 2023, we had material purchase commitments and other contractual obligations of $45.9 billion, of which $31.6 billion was short-term. These amounts primarily consist of purchase orders for certain technical infrastructure as well as the non-cancelable portion or the minimum cancellation fee in certain agreements related to commitments to purchase licenses, including content licenses, inventory and network capacity. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of December 31, 2023. In certain instances, the amount of our contractual obligations may change based on the expected timing of order fulfillment from our suppliers. For more information related to our content licenses, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
In addition, we regularly enter into multi-year, non-cancellable agreements to purchase renewable energy and energy attributes, such as renewable energy certificates. These agreements do not include a minimum dollar commitment. The amounts to be paid under these agreements are based on the actual volumes to be generated and are not readily determinable.
Critical Accounting Estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions. Our critical accounting estimates are those estimates that involve a significant level of uncertainty at the time the estimate was made, and changes in them have had or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We have reviewed our critical accounting estimates with the Audit and Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors.
For a summary of significant accounting policies and the effect on our financial statements, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Fair Value Measurements of Non-Marketable Equity Securities
We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, consisting primarily of our non-marketable equity securities. These investments are accounted for under the measurement alternative method ("the measurement alternative") and are measured at cost, less impairment, subject to upward and downward adjustments resulting from observable price changes for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. These adjustments require quantitative assessments of the fair value of our securities, which may require the use of unobservable inputs. Adjustments are determined primarily based on a market approach as of the transaction date and involve the use of estimates using the best information available, which may include cash flow projections or other available market data.
Non-marketable equity securities are also evaluated for impairment, based on qualitative factors including the companies' financial and liquidity position and access to capital resources, among others. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare quantitative measurements of the fair value of our equity investments using a market approach or an income approach, which requires judgment and the use of unobservable inputs, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data of private and public companies, among others. 
43. 



Alphabet Inc.

When the quantitative remeasurements of fair value indicate an impairment exists, we write down the investment to its current fair value.
We also have compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized returns from certain investments, i.e. performance fees. We record compensation expense based on the estimated payouts on an ongoing basis, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized and compensation is paid and may require the use of unobservable inputs.
Property and Equipment
We assess the reasonableness of the useful lives of our property and equipment periodically as well as when other changes occur, such as when there are changes to ongoing business operations, changes in the planned use and utilization of assets, or technological advancements, that could indicate a change in the period over which we expect to benefit from the assets. 
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes.
Recording an uncertain tax position involves various qualitative considerations, including evaluation of comparable and resolved tax exposures, applicability of tax laws, and likelihood of settlement. We evaluate uncertain tax positions periodically, considering changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made.
The provision for income taxes includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Loss Contingencies
We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, data security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury consumer protection, and other matters. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material.
Change in Accounting Estimate
In January 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment resulting in a change in the estimated useful life of our servers and certain network equipment to six years. This change in accounting estimate was effective beginning fiscal year 2023. For additional information, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
44. 



Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity investment risks. 
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We transact business globally in multiple currencies. International revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. As discussed below, we enter into derivative instruments to hedge foreign currency risk. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro, and Japanese yen. For the purpose of analyzing foreign currency exchange risk, we considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% could be experienced.
We use foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary. These forward and option contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on these assets and liabilities are recorded in OI&E, which are offset by the gains and losses on the forward and option contracts.
If an adverse 10% foreign currency exchange rate change was applied to total monetary assets, liabilities, and commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies at the balance sheet date, it would have resulted in an adverse effect on income before income taxes of approximately $136 million and $503 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2023, respectively, after consideration of the effect of foreign exchange contracts in place for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023.
We use foreign currency forward and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) to protect forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency forward and option contacts reduce the foreign currency losses related to our earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign currency gains related to our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. We reflect the gains or losses of foreign currency spot rate changes as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and subsequently reclassify them into revenues to offset the hedged exposures as they occur. 
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10% as of December 31, 2022 and 2023, the amount recorded in AOCI related to our cash flow hedges before tax effect would have been approximately $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion lower as of December 31, 2022 and 2023, respectively. The change in the value recorded in AOCI would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in forecasted hedged revenues when recognized.
We use foreign exchange forward contracts designated as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to investment in foreign subsidiaries. These forward contracts serve to offset the foreign currency translation risk from our foreign operations.
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10%, the amount recorded in cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) within AOCI related to our net investment hedges before tax effect would have been approximately $903 million and $946 million lower as of December 31, 2022 and 2023, respectively. The change in value recorded in CTA would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency translation gain or loss from our investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Interest Rate Risk
Our Corporate Treasury investment strategy is to achieve a return that will allow us to preserve capital and maintain liquidity. We invest primarily in debt securities, including government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, money market and other funds, time deposits, and interest rate derivatives. By policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Unrealized gains or losses on our marketable debt securities are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations as compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. For certain fixed and variable rate debt securities, we have elected the fair value option for which changes in fair value are recorded in OI&E. We measure securities for which we have not elected the fair value option at fair value with gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold, less any expected credit losses. 
45. 



Alphabet Inc.

We use value-at-risk (VaR) analysis to determine the potential effect of fluctuations in interest rates on the value of our marketable debt security portfolio. The VaR is the expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due to adverse movements in interest rates. We use a variance/covariance VaR model with 95% confidence interval. The estimated one-day loss in fair value of marketable debt securities as of December 31, 2022 and 2023 are shown below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, | | 12-Month Average As of December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023 | 2022 | | 2023
Risk category - interest rate | $ | 256 | | $ | 296 | | $ | 198 | $ | 271

Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2022 and 2023 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes in interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. VaR analysis is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation.
Equity Investment Risk
Our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings.
Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks or funds and our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages.
We record marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method at fair value based on readily determinable market values, of which publicly traded stocks and mutual funds are subject to market price volatility, and represent $5.2 billion and $6.0 billion of our investments as of December 31, 2022 and 2023, respectively. A hypothetical adverse price change of 10% on our December 31, 2023 balance would decrease the fair value of marketable equity securities by $597 million. From time to time, we may enter into derivatives to hedge the market price risk on certain of our marketable equity securities.
Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment (referred to as the measurement alternative). The fair value measured at the time of the observable transaction is not necessarily an indication of the current fair value as of the balance sheet date. These investments, especially those that are in the early stages, are inherently risky because the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early phases and may never materialize, and they may experience a decline in financial condition, which could result in a loss of a substantial part of our investment in these companies. Valuations of our equity investments in private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data and observable transactions at lower valuations could result in significant losses. In addition, global economic conditions could result in additional volatility. The success of our investment in any private company is also typically dependent on the likelihood of our ability to realize appreciation in the value of investments through liquidity events such as public offerings, acquisitions, private sales or other market events. Changes in the valuation of non-marketable equity securities may not directly correlate with changes in valuation of marketable equity securities. As of December 31, 2022 and 2023, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities, which were accounted for under the measurement alternative, was $28.5 billion and $28.8 billion, respectively. 
The carrying values of our equity method investments, which totaled approximately $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2023, generally do not fluctuate based on market price changes. However, these investments could be impaired if the carrying value exceeds the fair value and is not expected to recover.
For additional information about our equity investments, see Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
46. 



Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Alphabet Inc.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 | Page
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42) | 48 
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 

47. 



Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2022 and 2023, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2023, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15 (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2022 and 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2023, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated January 30, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosure to which it relates. 
48. 



Alphabet Inc.

Loss Contingencies 
Description of the Matter | The Company is regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by its users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using their platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. As described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements “Commitments and contingencies” such claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders could result in adverse consequences.Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood, and the estimated amount, of a loss related to such matters. Auditing management’s accounting for and disclosure of loss contingencies from these matters involved challenging and subjective auditor judgment in assessing the Company’s evaluation of the probability of a loss, and the estimated amount or range of loss.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit | We tested relevant controls over the identified risks associated with management’s accounting for and disclosure of these matters. This included controls over management’s assessment of the probability of incurrence of a loss and whether the loss or range of loss was reasonably estimable and the development of related disclosures.Our audit procedures included gaining an understanding of previous rulings and the status of ongoing lawsuits, reviewing letters addressing the matters from internal and external legal counsel, meeting with internal legal counsel to discuss the allegations, and obtaining a representation letter from management on these matters. We also evaluated the Company’s disclosures in relation to these matters. 


/s/ Ernst & Young LLP 
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1999.
San Jose, California 
January 30, 2024 

49. 



Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Alphabet Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Alphabet Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the 2023 consolidated financial statements of the Company and our report dated January 30, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
January 30, 2024 

50. 



Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions, except par value per share amounts)
 | As of December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Assets | | | 
Current assets: | | | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 21,879 | | | $ | 24,048 
Marketable securities | 91,883 | | | 86,868 | 
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | 113,762 | | | 110,916 | 
Accounts receivable, net | 40,258 | | | 47,964 | 
Other current assets | 10,775 | | | 12,650 | 
Total current assets | 164,795 | | | 171,530 | 
Non-marketable securities | 30,492 | | | 31,008 | 
Deferred income taxes | 5,261 | | | 12,169 | 
Property and equipment, net | 112,668 | | | 134,345 | 
Operating lease assets | 14,381 | | | 14,091 | 
Goodwill | 28,960 | | | 29,198 | 
Other non-current assets | 8,707 | | | 10,051 | 
Total assets | $ | 365,264 | | | $ | 402,392
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity | | | 
Current liabilities: | | | 
Accounts payable | $ | 5,128 | | | $ | 7,493 
Accrued compensation and benefits | 14,028 | | | 15,140 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 37,866 | | | 46,168 | 
Accrued revenue share | 8,370 | | | 8,876 | 
Deferred revenue | 3,908 | | | 4,137 | 
Total current liabilities | 69,300 | | | 81,814 | 
Long-term debt | 14,701 | | | 13,253 | 
Deferred revenue, non-current | 599 | | | 911 | 
Income taxes payable, non-current | 9,258 | | | 8,474 | 
Deferred income taxes | 514 | | | 485 | 
Operating lease liabilities | 12,501 | | | 12,460 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 2,247 | | | 1,616 | 
Total liabilities | 109,120 | | | 119,013 | 
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 10) | | | 
Stockholders’ equity: | | | 
Preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share, 100 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding | 0 | | | 0 | 
Class A, Class B, and Class C stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.001 par value per share: 300,000 shares authorized (Class A 180,000, Class B 60,000, Class C 60,000); 12,849 (Class A 5,964, Class B 883, Class C 6,002) and 12,460 (Class A 5,899, Class B 870, Class C 5,691) shares issued and outstanding | 68,184 | | | 76,534 | 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) | (7,603) | | | (4,402) | 
Retained earnings | 195,563 | | | 211,247 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 256,144 | | | 283,379 | 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity | $ | 365,264 | | | $ | 402,392

See accompanying notes.
51. 



Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Revenues | $ | 257,637 | | | $ | 282,836 | | $ | 307,394
Costs and expenses: | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 110,939 | | | 126,203 | | | 133,332
Research and development | 31,562 | | | 39,500 | | | 45,427 
Sales and marketing | 22,912 | | | 26,567 | | | 27,917 
General and administrative | 13,510 | | | 15,724 | | | 16,425 
Total costs and expenses | 178,923 | | | 207,994 | | | 223,101
Income from operations | 78,714 | | | 74,842 | | | 84,293 
Other income (expense), net | 12,020 | | | (3,514) | | | 1,424 
Income before income taxes | 90,734 | | | 71,328 | | | 85,717 
Provision for income taxes | 14,701 | | | 11,356 | | | 11,922 
Net income | $ | 76,033 | | | $ | 59,972 | | $ | 73,795 
Basic net income per share of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock | $ | 5.69 | | | $ | 4.59 | | $ | 5.84 
Diluted net income per share of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock | $ | 5.61 | | | $ | 4.56 | | $ | 5.80 

See accompanying notes.
52. 



Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(in millions)
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Net income | $ | 76,033 | | | $ | 59,972 | | $ | 73,795
Other comprehensive income (loss): | | | | | 
Change in foreign currency translation adjustment | (1,442) | | | (1,836) | | | 735 
Available-for-sale investments: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | (1,312) | | | (4,720) | | | 1,344
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (64) | | | 1,007 | | | 1,168
Net change, net of income tax benefit (expense) of $394, $1,056, and $(698) | (1,376) | | | (3,713) | | | 2,512
Cash flow hedges: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 716 | | | 1,275 | | | 168 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (154) | | | (1,706) | | | (214)
Net change, net of income tax benefit (expense) of $(122), $110, and $2 | 562 | | | (431) | | | (46) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (2,256) | | | (5,980) | | | 3,201
Comprehensive income | $ | 73,777 | | | $ | 53,992 | | $ | 76,996

See accompanying notes.
53. 



Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(in millions)
 | Class A, Class B, Class C Stock andAdditional Paid-In Capital | AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss) | | RetainedEarnings | TotalStockholders’Equity
 | Shares | Amount | 
Balance as of December 31, 2020 | 13,504 | | $ | 58,510 | | $ | 633 | | $ | 163,401 | $ | 222,544
Stock issued | 145 | | 12 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 12 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 15,539 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 15,539 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | (10,273) | | 0 | | | 0 | | (10,273)
Repurchases of stock | (407) | | (2,324) | | 0 | | | (47,950) | | (50,274)
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | 310 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 310 
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 76,033 | | 76,033 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | (2,256) | | | 0 | | (2,256) 
Balance as of December 31, 2021 | 13,242 | | 61,774 | | (1,623) | | | 191,484 | | 251,635 
Stock issued | 137 | | 8 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 8 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 19,525 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 19,525 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | (9,754) | | 0 | | | (1) | | (9,755) 
Repurchases of stock | (530) | | (3,404) | | 0 | | | (55,892) | | (59,296)
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | 35 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 35 
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 59,972 | | 59,972 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | (5,980) | | | 0 | | (5,980) 
Balance as of December 31, 2022 | 12,849 | | 68,184 | | (7,603) | | | 195,563 | | 256,144 
Stock issued | 139 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 22,578 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 22,578 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | (10,164) | | 0 | | | 9 | | (10,155)
Repurchases of stock | (528) | | (4,064) | | 0 | | | (58,120) | | (62,184)
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 73,795 | | 73,795 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | 3,201 | | | 0 | | 3,201 
Balance as of December 31, 2023 | 12,460 | | $ | 76,534 | | $ | (4,402) | | $ | 211,247 | $ | 283,379

See accompanying notes.
54. 



Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Operating activities | | | | | 
Net income | $ | 76,033 | | | $ | 59,972 | | $ | 73,795
Adjustments: | | | | | 
Depreciation of property and equipment | 10,273 | | | 13,475 | | | 11,946 
Stock-based compensation expense | 15,376 | | | 19,362 | | | 22,460 
Deferred income taxes | 1,808 | | | (8,081) | | | (7,763) 
(Gain) loss on debt and equity securities, net | (12,270) | | | 5,519 | | | 823 
Other | 1,955 | | | 3,483 | | | 4,330 
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions: | | | | | 
Accounts receivable, net | (9,095) | | | (2,317) | | | (7,833) 
Income taxes, net | (625) | | | 584 | | | 523 
Other assets | (1,846) | | | (5,046) | | | (2,143) 
Accounts payable | 283 | | | 707 | | | 664 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities | 7,304 | | | 3,915 | | | 3,937 
Accrued revenue share | 1,682 | | | (445) | | | 482 
Deferred revenue | 774 | | | 367 | | | 525 
Net cash provided by operating activities | 91,652 | | | 91,495 | | | 101,746 
Investing activities | | | | | 
Purchases of property and equipment | (24,640) | | | (31,485) | | | (32,251)
Purchases of marketable securities | (135,196) | | | (78,874) | | | (77,858)
Maturities and sales of marketable securities | 128,294 | | | 97,822 | | | 86,672 
Purchases of non-marketable securities | (2,838) | | | (2,531) | | | (3,027) 
Maturities and sales of non-marketable securities | 934 | | | 150 | | | 947 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible assets | (2,618) | | | (6,969) | | | (495) 
Other investing activities | 541 | | | 1,589 | | | (1,051) 
Net cash used in investing activities | (35,523) | | | (20,298) | | | (27,063)
Financing activities | | | | | 
Net payments related to stock-based award activities | (10,162) | | | (9,300) | | | (9,837) 
Repurchases of stock | (50,274) | | | (59,296) | | | (61,504)
Proceeds from issuance of debt, net of costs | 20,199 | | | 52,872 | | | 10,790 
Repayments of debt | (21,435) | | | (54,068) | | | (11,550)
Proceeds from sale of interest in consolidated entities, net | 310 | | | 35 | | | 8 
Net cash used in financing activities | (61,362) | | | (69,757) | | | (72,093)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents | (287) | | | (506) | | | (421) 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents | (5,520) | | | 934 | | | 2,169 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period | 26,465 | | | 20,945 | | | 21,879 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period | $ | 20,945 | | | $ | 21,879 | | $ | 24,048
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information | | | | | 
Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds | $ | 13,412 | | | $ | 18,892 | | $ | 19,164

See accompanying notes.
55. 



Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Nature of Operations
Google was incorporated in California in September 1998 and re-incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2003. In 2015, we implemented a holding company reorganization, and as a result, Alphabet Inc. ("Alphabet") became the successor issuer to Google.
We generate revenues by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide enterprise customers with infrastructure and platform services as well as communication and collaboration tools; sales of other products and services, such as fees received for consumer subscription-based products, apps and in-app purchases, and devices.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet include the accounts of Alphabet and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Use of Estimates
Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates due to uncertainties. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the allowance for credit losses; content licenses; contingent liabilities; fair values of financial instruments and goodwill; income taxes; inventory; and useful lives of property and equipment, among others. We base our estimates on assumptions, both historical and forward looking, that are believed to be reasonable, and the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
In January 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment and adjusted the estimated useful life of our servers from four years to six years and the estimated useful life of certain network equipment from five years to six years. This change in accounting estimate was effective beginning in fiscal year 2023. Based on the carrying value of servers and certain network equipment as of December 31, 2022, and those placed in service during the year ended December 31, 2023, the effect of this change in estimate was a reduction in depreciation expense of $3.9 billion and an increase in net income of $3.0 billion, or $0.24 per basic and $0.24 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2023.
Revenue Recognition
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, and the collectibility of an amount that we expect in exchange for those goods or services is probable. Sales and other similar taxes are excluded from revenues. 
Advertising Revenues
We generate advertising revenues primarily by delivering advertising on:
•Google Search and other properties, including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc. and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play;
•YouTube properties; and
•Google Network properties, including revenues from Google Network properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.
Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through Google Ads, Google Ad Manager, Google Display & Video 360, and Google Marketing Platform, among others.
We offer advertising by delivering both performance and brand advertising. We recognize revenues for performance advertising when a user engages with the advertisement. For brand advertising, we recognize revenues when the ad is displayed, or a user views the ad.
For ads placed on Google Network properties, we evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis). Generally, we report advertising revenues for ads placed on Google Network properties on a gross basis, that is, the amounts billed to our customers are recorded as revenues, 
56. 



Alphabet Inc.

and amounts paid to Google Network partners are recorded as cost of revenues. Where we are the principal, we control the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers. Our control is evidenced by our sole ability to monetize the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing.
Google Subscriptions, Platforms, and Devices
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues consist of revenues from:
•consumer subscriptions, which primarily include revenues from YouTube services, such YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket, as well as Google One;
•platforms, which primarily include revenues from Google Play from the sales of apps and in-app purchases;
•devices, which primarily include sales of the Pixel family of devices; and
•other products and services.
Subscription revenues are recognized ratably over the period of the subscription, primarily monthly. We report revenues from Google Play app sales and in-app purchases on a net basis, because our performance obligation is to facilitate a transaction between app developers and end users, for which we earn a service fee. 
Google Cloud Revenues
Google Cloud revenues consist of revenues from:
•Google Cloud Platform, which generates consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, and other services. These services provide access to solutions such as cybersecurity, databases, analytics, and AI offerings including our AI infrastructure, Vertex AI platform, and Duet AI for Google Cloud;
•Google Workspace, which includes subscriptions for cloud-based communication and collaboration tools for enterprises, such as Calendar, Gmail, Docs, Drive, and Meet, with integrated features like Duet AI in Google Workspace; and
•other enterprise services.
Our cloud services are generally provided on either a consumption or subscription basis and may have contract terms longer than a year. Revenues related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis are recognized when the customer utilizes the services, based on the quantity of services consumed. Revenues related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis are recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services.
Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations
Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We generally determine standalone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers.
Customer Incentives and Credits
Certain customers receive cash-based incentives or credits, which are accounted for as variable consideration. We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenues. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration.
Sales Commissions
We expense sales commissions when incurred when the period of the expected benefit is one year or less. We recognize an asset for certain sales commissions and amortize if the expected benefit period is greater than one year. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of TAC and other costs of revenues.
•TAC includes: 
◦amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers; and
◦amounts paid to Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed on their properties.
57. 



Alphabet Inc.

•Other cost of revenues includes:
◦compensation expense related to our data centers and other operations such as content review and customer and product support;
◦content acquisition costs, which are payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);
◦depreciation expense related to our technical infrastructure; and
◦inventory and other costs related to the devices we sell.
Software Development Costs
We expense software development costs, including costs to develop software products or the software component of products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, before technological feasibility is reached. Technological feasibility is typically reached shortly before the release of such products. As a result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented.
Software development costs also include costs to develop software to be used solely to meet internal needs and cloud-based applications used to deliver our services. We capitalize development costs related to these software applications once the preliminary project stage is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented.
Stock-based Compensation 
Stock-based compensation (SBC) primarily consists of Alphabet restricted stock units (RSUs). RSUs are equity classified and measured at the fair market value of the underlying stock at the grant date. We recognize RSU expense using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period and account for forfeitures as they occur.
For RSUs, shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the applicable statutory income tax withholding to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, fewer shares are issued than the number of RSUs outstanding, and the income tax withholding is recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital.
Additionally, SBC includes other stock-based awards, such as performance stock units (PSUs) that include market conditions and awards that may be settled in cash or the stock of certain Other Bet companies. PSUs and certain awards granted by Other Bet companies are equity classified and expense is recognized over the requisite service period. Certain awards granted by Other Bet companies are liability classified and remeasured at fair value through settlement. The fair value of awards granted by Other Bet companies is based on the equity valuation of the respective Other Bet company.
Advertising and Promotional Expenses
We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $7.9 billion, $9.2 billion, and $8.7 billion, respectively.
Performance Fees
Performance fees refer to compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized returns from certain investments. We record compensation expense based on the estimated payouts on an ongoing basis, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized and compensation is paid and may require the use of unobservable inputs. Performance fees are recorded as a component of OI&E.
Fair Value Measurements 
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured and classified in accordance with a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the observability of the inputs available in the market used to measure fair value:
Level 1 - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
58. 



Alphabet Inc.

Level 2 - Inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activities.
The fair value hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The determination of fair value involves the use of appropriate valuation methods and relevant inputs into valuation models.
Our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative financial instruments, and certain non-marketable debt securities. Our financial assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include non-marketable equity securities. Other financial assets and liabilities are carried at cost with fair value disclosed, if required.
We measure certain other instruments, including SBC awards settled in the stock of Other Bet companies, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, also at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. 
Financial Instruments
Our financial instruments include cash, cash equivalents, marketable and non-marketable securities, derivative financial instruments and accounts receivable.
Credit Risks
We are subject to credit risk primarily from cash equivalents, marketable debt securities, derivative financial instruments, including foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. We manage our credit risk exposure through timely assessment of our counterparty creditworthiness, credit limits and use of collateral management. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from customers located around the world. We manage our credit risk exposure by performing ongoing evaluations to determine customer credit and we limit the amount of credit we extend. We generally do not require collateral from our customers.
Cash Equivalents
We invest excess cash primarily in government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, time deposits, and money market funds.
Marketable Securities
We classify all marketable debt securities that have effective maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase as cash equivalents and those with effective maturities of greater than three months as marketable securities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. We have classified and accounted for our marketable debt securities as available-for-sale. After consideration of our risk versus reward objectives, as well as our liquidity requirements, we may sell these debt securities prior to their effective maturities. As we view these securities as available to support current operations, we classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond 12 months as current assets under the caption marketable securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We carry these securities at fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, as a component of stockholders’ equity, except for the changes in allowance for expected credit losses, which are recorded in OI&E. For certain marketable debt securities we have elected the fair value option, for which changes in fair value are recorded in OI&E. We determine any realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable debt securities on a specific identification method, and we record such gains and losses as a component of OI&E.
Our investments in marketable equity securities are measured at fair value with the related gains and losses, including unrealized, recognized in OI&E. We classify our marketable equity securities subject to long-term lock-up restrictions beyond 12 months as other non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Non-Marketable Securities
Non-marketable securities primarily consist of equity securities. We account for non-marketable equity securities through which we exercise significant influence but do not have control over the investee under the equity method. All other non-marketable equity securities that we hold are primarily accounted for under the measurement alternative. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value is measured at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus 
59. 



Alphabet Inc.

changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. Adjustments are determined primarily based on a market approach as of the transaction date and are recorded as a component of OI&E.
Non-marketable securities that do not have effective contractual maturity dates are classified as other non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Derivative Financial Instruments
See Note 3 for the accounting policy pertaining to derivative financial instruments. 
Accounts Receivable
Our payment terms for accounts receivable vary by the types and locations of our customers and the products or services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customers, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer. Additionally, accounts receivable includes amounts for services performed in advance of the right to invoice the customer.
We maintain an allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, which is recorded as an offset to accounts receivable, and changes in such are classified as general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. We assess collectibility by reviewing accounts receivable on a collective basis where similar characteristics exist and on an individual basis when we identify specific customers with known disputes or collectibility issues. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we consider historical collectibility based on past due status and make judgments about the creditworthiness of customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. We also consider customer-specific information, current market conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions.
Other
Our financial instruments also include debt and equity investments in companies with which we also entered into commercial arrangements at or near the same time. For these transactions, judgment is required in assessing the substance of the arrangements, including assessing whether the components of the arrangements should be accounted for as separate transactions under the applicable GAAP, and determining the value of the components of the arrangements, including the fair value of the investments. Additionally, if our investment in such companies becomes impaired, any remaining performance obligations would be reassessed and may be reduced.
Impairment of Investments
We periodically review our debt and non-marketable equity securities for impairment. 
For debt securities in an unrealized loss position, we determine whether a credit loss exists. The credit loss is estimated by considering available information relevant to the collectibility of the security and information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Any credit loss is recorded as a charge to OI&E, not to exceed the amount of the unrealized loss. Unrealized losses other than the credit loss are recognized in AOCI. If we have an intent to sell, or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a debt security in an unrealized loss position before recovery of its amortized cost basis, we will write down the security to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as a component of OI&E. 
For non-marketable equity securities, including equity method investments, we consider whether impairment indicators exist by evaluating the companies' financial and liquidity position and access to capital resources, among other indicators. If the assessment indicates that the investment is impaired, we write down the investment to its fair value by recording the corresponding charge as a component of OI&E. We prepare quantitative measurements of the fair value of our equity investments using a market approach or an income approach.
Inventory
Inventory consists primarily of finished goods and is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is computed using the first-in, first-out method.
Variable Interest Entities
We determine at the inception of each arrangement whether an entity in which we have made an investment or in which we have other variable interests is considered a variable interest entity (VIE). We consolidate VIEs when we are the primary beneficiary. We are the primary beneficiary of a VIE when we have the power to direct activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE and have the obligation to absorb the majority of their losses 
60. 



Alphabet Inc.

or benefits. If we are not the primary beneficiary in a VIE, we account for the investment or other variable interests in a VIE in accordance with applicable GAAP.
Periodically, we assess whether any changes in our interest or relationship with the entity affect our determination of whether the entity is a VIE and, if so, whether we are the primary beneficiary. 
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment includes the following categories: land and buildings, information technology assets, construction in progress, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. Land and buildings include land, offices, data centers, and related building improvements. Information technology assets include servers and network equipment. Construction in progress is the construction or development of property and equipment that have not yet been placed in service. 
Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is recorded using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which we regularly evaluate. Land is not depreciated. We depreciate buildings over periods of seven to 25 years. We depreciate information technology assets generally over a period of six years for servers and network equipment. We depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets. Depreciation for buildings, information technology assets, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures commences once they are ready for our intended use.
Goodwill
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the expected benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units periodically, as well as when changes in our operating segments occur. For changes in reporting units, we reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairments were not material for the periods presented.
Leases
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Our lease agreements generally contain lease and non-lease components. Payments under our lease arrangements are primarily fixed. Non-lease components primarily include payments for maintenance and utilities. We combine fixed payments for non-lease components with lease payments and account for them together as a single lease component which increases the amount of our lease assets and liabilities.
Certain lease agreements contain variable payments, which are expensed as incurred and not included in the lease assets and liabilities. These amounts primarily include payments affected by the Consumer Price Index, and payments for maintenance and utilities.
Lease assets and liabilities are recognized at the present value of the future lease payments at the lease commencement date. The interest rate used to determine the present value of the future lease payments is our incremental borrowing rate, because the interest rate implicit in our leases is not readily determinable. Our incremental borrowing rate is estimated to approximate the interest rate on a collateralized basis with similar terms and payments, and in economic environments where the leased asset is located. Our lease terms include periods under options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. We generally use the base, non-cancelable, lease term when determining the lease assets and liabilities. Lease assets also include any prepaid lease payments and lease incentives.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The current portion of our operating lease liabilities is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and the long-term portion is included in operating lease liabilities. Finance lease assets are included in property and equipment, net. Finance lease liabilities are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities or long-term debt.
Operating lease expense (excluding variable lease costs) is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
We review leases, property and equipment, and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows independent of other assets. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets or the asset group are expected 
61. 



Alphabet Inc.

to generate. If the carrying value of the assets or asset group is not recoverable, the impairment recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its fair value.
Income Taxes
We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which we recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based on provisions of enacted tax law. We evaluate the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets based on all available evidence and establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will not be realized or release a valuation allowance to increase deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will be realized. We have elected to account for the tax effects of the global intangible low tax Income provision as a current period expense.
We recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not that, based on technical merits, the position will be sustained upon examination. The tax benefits of the position recognized in the financial statements are then measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. In addition, we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the income tax provision.
Business Combinations
We include the results of operations of the businesses that we acquire as of the acquisition date. We allocate the purchase price of the acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values, except for revenue contracts acquired, which are recognized in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred.
Foreign Currency
We translate the financial statements of our international subsidiaries to U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. We record translation gains and losses in AOCI as a component of stockholders’ equity. We reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion of the transaction currency to functional currency as a component of foreign currency exchange gain (loss) in OI&E.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In November 2023, the Financial Standards Accounting Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2023-07 "Segment Reporting (Topic 280):Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures" which expands annual and interim disclosure requirements for reportable segments, primarily through enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses. ASU 2023-07 is effective for our annual periods beginning January 1, 2024, and for interim periods beginning January 1, 2025, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the potential effect that the updated standard will have on our financial statement disclosures.
In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09 "Income Taxes (Topics 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures" to expand the disclosure requirements for income taxes, specifically related to the rate reconciliation and income taxes paid. ASU 2023-09 is effective for our annual periods beginning January 1, 2025, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the potential effect that the updated standard will have on our financial statement disclosures.
Prior Period Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
62. 



Alphabet Inc.

Note 2. Revenues 
Disaggregated Revenues
The following table presents revenues disaggregated by type (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Google Search & other | $ | 148,951 | | | $ | 162,450 | | $ | 175,033
YouTube ads | 28,845 | | | 29,243 | | | 31,510 
Google Network | 31,701 | | | 32,780 | | | 31,312 
Google advertising | 209,497 | | | 224,473 | | | 237,855
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices | 28,032 | | | 29,055 | | | 34,688 
Google Services total | 237,529 | | | 253,528 | | | 272,543
Google Cloud | 19,206 | | | 26,280 | | | 33,088 
Other Bets | 753 | | | 1,068 | | | 1,527 
Hedging gains (losses) | 149 | | | 1,960 | | | 236 
Total revenues | $ | 257,637 | | | $ | 282,836 | | $ | 307,394

No individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than 10% of our revenues in 2021, 2022, or 2023. 
The following table presents revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the addresses of our customers (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
United States | $ | 117,854 | | | 46 | % | | $ | 134,814 | | 48 | % | $ | 146,286 | 47 | %
EMEA(1) | 79,107 | | | 31 | | | 82,062 | | | 29 | | 91,038 | | 30 
APAC(1) | 46,123 | | | 18 | | | 47,024 | | | 16 | | 51,514 | | 17 
Other Americas(1) | 14,404 | | | 5 | | | 16,976 | | | 6 | | 18,320 | | 6 
Hedging gains (losses) | 149 | | | 0 | | | 1,960 | | | 1 | | 236 | | 0 
Total revenues | $ | 257,637 | | | 100 | % | | $ | 282,836 | | 100 | % | $ | 307,394 | 100 | %

(1)    Regions represent Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific (APAC); and Canada and Latin America ("Other Americas").
Revenue Backlog
As of December 31, 2023, we had $74.1 billion of remaining performance obligations (“revenue backlog”), primarily related to Google Cloud. Our revenue backlog represents commitments in customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized as revenue. The estimated revenue backlog and timing of revenue recognition for these commitments is largely driven by our ability to deliver in accordance with relevant contract terms and when our customers utilize services. We expect to recognize approximately half of the revenue backlog as revenues over the next 24 months with the remaining to be recognized thereafter. Revenue backlog includes related deferred revenue currently recorded as well as amounts that will be invoiced in future periods, and excludes contracts with an original expected term of one year or less and cancellable contracts.
Deferred Revenues
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance, including amounts which are refundable. Deferred revenues primarily relate to Google Cloud and Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices. Total deferred revenue as of December 31, 2022 was $4.5 billion, of which $2.4 billion was recognized as revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023.
Note 3. Financial Instruments
Fair Value Measurements
Investments Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable equity securities are measured at fair value and classified within Level 1 
63. 



Alphabet Inc.

and Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, because we use quoted prices for identical assets in active markets or inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets.
Debt securities are measured at fair value and classified within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, because we use quoted market prices to the extent available or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs to determine fair value. For certain marketable debt securities, we have elected the fair value option for which changes in fair value are recorded in OI&E. The fair value option was elected for these securities to align with the unrealized gains and losses from related derivative contracts.
The following tables summarize our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in millions):

 | | As of December 31, 2022
 | Fair Value Hierarchy | Adjusted Cost | | Gross Unrealized Gains | Gross Unrealized Losses | | Fair Value | | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | Marketable Securities
Fair value changes recorded in other comprehensive income | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits | Level 2 | $ | 5,297 | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 5,297 | | | $ | 5,293 | $ | 4 
Government bonds | Level 2 | 41,036 | | 64 | | (2,045) | | | 39,055 | | | 283 | | | 38,772 | 
Corporate debt securities | Level 2 | 28,578 | | 8 | | (1,569) | | | 27,017 | | | 1 | | | 27,016 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | Level 2 | 16,176 | | 5 | | (1,242) | | | 14,939 | | | 0 | | | 14,939 | 
Total investments with fair value change reflected in other comprehensive income(1) | | $ | 91,087 | | $ | 77 | | | $ | (4,856) | | | $ | 86,308 | | | $ | 5,577 | $ | 80,731
Fair value adjustments recorded in net income | | | | | | | | | | | 
Money market funds | Level 1 | | | | | | $ | 7,234 | | | $ | 7,234 | | | $ | 0 | 
Current marketable equity securities(2) | Level 1 | | | | | | 4,013 | | | 0 | | | 4,013 | 
Mutual funds | Level 2 | | | | | | 339 | | | 0 | | | 339 | 
Government bonds | Level 2 | | | | | | 1,877 | | | 440 | | | 1,437 | 
Corporate debt securities | Level 2 | | | | | | 3,744 | | | 65 | | | 3,679 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | Level 2 | | | | | | 1,686 | | | 2 | | | 1,684 | 
Total investments with fair value change recorded in net income | | | | | | | $ | 18,893 | | | $ | 7,741 | | | $ | 11,152 | 
Cash | | | | | | | 0 | | | 8,561 | | | 0 | 
Total | | $ | 91,087 | | $ | 77 | | | $ | (4,856) | | | $ | 105,201 | | | $ | 21,879 | $ | 91,883

(1)Represents gross unrealized gains and losses for debt securities recorded to AOCI.
(2)The long-term portion of marketable equity securities (subject to long-term lock-up restrictions) of $803 million as of December 31, 2022 is included within other non-current assets.
64. 



Alphabet Inc.


 | | As of December 31, 2023
 | Fair Value Hierarchy | Adjusted Cost | | Gross Unrealized Gains | | Gross Unrealized Losses | | Fair Value | | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | Marketable Securities
Fair value changes recorded in other comprehensive income | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits | Level 2 | $ | 2,628 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 2,628 | | | $ | 2,628 | $ | 0 
Government bonds | Level 2 | 38,106 | | | 233 | | | (679) | | | 37,660 | | | 1,993 | | | 35,667 | 
Corporate debt securities | Level 2 | 22,457 | | | 112 | | | (637) | | | 21,932 | | | 0 | | | 21,932 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | Level 2 | 17,243 | | | 88 | | | (634) | | | 16,697 | | | 0 | | | 16,697 | 
Total investments with fair value change reflected in other comprehensive income(1) | | $ | 80,434 | | | $ | 433 | | | $ | (1,950) | | | $ | 78,917 | | | $ | 4,621 | $ | 74,296
Fair value adjustments recorded in net income | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Money market funds | Level 1 | | | | | | | $ | 6,480 | | | $ | 6,480 | | | $ | 0 | 
Current marketable equity securities(2) | Level 1 | | | | | | | 4,282 | | 0 | | | 4,282
Mutual funds | Level 2 | | | | | | | 311 | | 0 | | | 311 
Government bonds | Level 2 | | | | | | | 1,952 | | 347 | | | 1,605
Corporate debt securities | Level 2 | | | | | | | 3,782 | | 91 | | | 3,691
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | Level 2 | | | | | | | 2,683 | | 0 | | | 2,683
Total investments with fair value change recorded in net income | | | | | | | | $ | 19,490 | | | $ | 6,918 | | | $ | 12,572 | 
Cash | | | | | | | | 0 | | | 12,509 | | | 0 | 
Total | | $ | 80,434 | | | $ | 433 | | | $ | (1,950) | | | $ | 98,407 | | | $ | 24,048 | $ | 86,868

(1)Represents gross unrealized gains and losses for debt securities recorded to AOCI.
(2)The long-term portion of marketable equity securities (subject to long-term lock-up restrictions) of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2023 is included within other non-current assets.
Investments Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
Our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies without readily determinable market values. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities is adjusted to fair value upon observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment. Non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured during the period based on observable transactions are classified within Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because we estimate the value based on valuation methods, including option pricing models, market comparable approach, and common stock equivalent method, which may include a combination of the observable transaction price at the transaction date and other unobservable inputs including volatility, expected time to exit, risk free rate, and the rights, and obligations of the securities we hold. These inputs significantly vary based on investment type. The fair value of non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured due to impairment are classified within Level 3.
As of December 31, 2023, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities was $28.8 billion, of which $13.7 billion were remeasured at fair value during the year ended December 31, 2023, and primarily classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy at the time of measurement. 
65. 



Alphabet Inc.

Debt Securities
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of investments in available-for-sale marketable debt securities by effective contractual maturity dates (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2023
Due in one year or less | $ | 11,231
Due in one year through five years | 41,477 | 
Due in five years through 10 years | 15,351 | 
Due after 10 years | 14,216 | 
Total | $ | 82,275

The following tables present fair values and gross unrealized losses recorded to AOCI, aggregated by investment category and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2022
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds | $ | 21,039 | | | $ | (1,004) | | $ | 13,438 | | $ | (1,041) | | $ | 34,477 | $ | (2,045)
Corporate debt securities | 11,228 | | | (440) | | | 15,125 | | (1,052) | | 26,353 | | (1,492) | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 7,725 | | | (585) | | | 6,964 | | (657) | | 14,689 | | (1,242) | 
Total | $ | 39,992 | | | $ | (2,029) | | $ | 35,527 | | $ | (2,750) | | $ | 75,519 | $ | (4,779)


 | As of December 31, 2023
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds | $ | 1,456 | | | $ | (22) | | $ | 13,897 | | $ | (657) | | $ | 15,353 | $ | (679) 
Corporate debt securities | 827 | | | (5) | | | 15,367 | | (592) | | 16,194 | | (597) | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 2,945 | | | (26) | | | 7,916 | | (608) | | 10,861 | | (634) | 
Total | $ | 5,228 | | | $ | (53) | | $ | 37,180 | | $ | (1,857) | | $ | 42,408 | $ | (1,910)

We determine realized gains or losses on the sale or extinguishment of debt securities on a specific identification method.The following table summarizes gains and losses for debt securities, reflected as a component of OI&E (in millions):    

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Unrealized gain (loss) on fair value option debt securities | $ | (122) | | | $ | (557) | | $ | 386 
Gross realized gain on debt securities | 432 | | | 103 | | | 182 
Gross realized loss on debt securities | (329) | | | (1,588) | | | (1,833)
(Increase) decrease in allowance for credit losses | (91) | | | (22) | | | 50 
Total gain (loss) on debt securities recognized in other income (expense), net | $ | (110) | | | $ | (2,064) | | $ | (1,215)

66. 



Alphabet Inc.

Equity Investments
The carrying value of equity securities is measured as the total initial cost plus the cumulative net gain (loss). Gains and losses, including impairments, are included as a component of OI&E in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 7 for further details on OI&E.
The carrying values for marketable and non-marketable equity securities are summarized below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2022 | | As of December 31, 2023 
 | Marketable Equity Securities | | Non-Marketable Equity Securities | | Total | | Marketable Equity Securities | Non-Marketable Equity Securities | | Total
Total initial cost | $ | 5,764 | | | $ | 16,157 | | $ | 21,921 | | $ | 5,418 | | $ | 17,616 | $ | 23,034
Cumulative net gain (loss)(1) | (608) | | | 12,372 | | | 11,764 | | 555 | | 11,150 | | 11,705 | 
Carrying value | $ | 5,156 | | | $ | 28,529 | | $ | 33,685 | | $ | 5,973 | | $ | 28,766 | $ | 34,739

(1)Non-marketable equity securities cumulative net gain (loss) is comprised of $16.8 billion gains and $4.5 billion losses (including impairments) as of December 31, 2022 and $18.1 billion gains and $6.9 billion losses (including impairments) as of December 31, 2023.
Gains and Losses on Marketable and Non-marketable Equity Securities
Gains and losses (including impairments), net, for marketable and non-marketable equity securities included in OI&E are summarized below (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Realized net gain (loss) on equity securities sold during the period | $ | 1,196 | | | $ | (442) | | $ | 690
Unrealized net gain (loss) on marketable equity securities | 1,335 | | | (3,242) | | | 790 
Unrealized net gain (loss) on non-marketable equity securities(1) | 9,849 | | | 229 | | | (1,088)
Total gain (loss) on equity securities in other income (expense), net | $ | 12,380 | | | $ | (3,455) | | $ | 392

(1)Unrealized gain (loss) on non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the measurement alternative is comprised of $10.0 billion, $3.3 billion, and $1.8 billion of upward adjustments as of December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, respectively, and $122 million, $3.0 billion, and $2.9 billion of downward adjustments (including impairments) as of December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, respectively.
In the table above, realized net gain (loss) on equity securities sold during the period reflects the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying value of the equity securities at the beginning of the period or the purchase date, if later.
Cumulative net gains (losses) on equity securities sold during the period, which is summarized in the following table (in millions), represents the total net gains (losses) recognized after the initial purchase date of the equity security sold during the period. While these net gains (losses) may have been reflected in periods prior to the period of sale, we believe they are important supplemental information as they reflect the economic net gains (losses) on the securities sold during the period. Cumulative net gains (losses) are calculated as the difference between the sale price and the initial purchase price for the equity security sold during the period.

 | Equity Securities Sold During the Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Total sale price | $ | 1,784 | | | $ | 1,981
Total initial cost | 937 | | | 1,512 | 
Cumulative net gains (losses) | $ | 847 | | | $ | 469 

Equity Securities Accounted for Under the Equity Method
As of December 31, 2022 and 2023, equity securities accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of approximately $1.5 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. Our share of gains and losses, including impairments, are included as a component of OI&E, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 7 for further details on OI&E.
67. 



Alphabet Inc.

Derivative Financial Instruments
We use derivative instruments to manage risks relating to our ongoing business operations. The primary risk managed is foreign exchange risk. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the risk that our cash flows, earnings, and investment in foreign subsidiaries will be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We also enter into derivative instruments to partially offset our exposure to other risks and enhance investment returns.
We recognize derivative instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value and classify the derivatives primarily within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. We present our collar contracts (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) at net fair values and present all other derivatives at gross fair values. The accounting treatment for derivatives is based on the intended use and hedge designation.
Cash Flow Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward and option contracts (including collars) as cash flow hedges to hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. These contracts have maturities of 24 months or less.
Cash flow hedge amounts included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are deferred in AOCI and subsequently reclassified to revenue when the hedged item is recognized in earnings. We exclude forward points and time value from our assessment of hedge effectiveness and amortize them on a straight-line basis over the life of the hedging instrument in revenues. The difference between fair value changes of the excluded component and the amount amortized to revenues is recorded in AOCI.
As of December 31, 2023, the net accumulated gain on our foreign currency cash flow hedges before tax effect was $47 million, which is expected to be reclassified from AOCI into revenues within the next 12 months.
Fair Value Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward contracts as fair value hedges to hedge foreign currency risks for our marketable securities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fair value hedge amounts included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in OI&E, along with the offsetting gains and losses of the related hedged items. We exclude forward points from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognize changes in the excluded component in OI&E.
Net Investment Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward contracts as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to our investment in foreign subsidiaries. Net investment hedge amounts included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in AOCI along with the foreign currency translation adjustment. We exclude forward points from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognize changes in the excluded component in OI&E.
Other Derivatives
We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts that are not designated as hedging instruments to hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a subsidiary. Gains and losses on these derivatives that are not designated as accounting hedges are primarily recorded in OI&E along with the foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to manage risks relating to interest rates, commodity prices, credit exposures, and to enhance investment returns. From time to time, we enter into derivatives to hedge the market price risk on certain of our marketable equity securities. Gains and losses arising from other derivatives are primarily reflected within the “other” component of OI&E. See Note 7 for further details. 
68. 



Alphabet Inc.

The gross notional amounts of outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments: | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | 
Cash flow hedges | $ | 15,972 | | $ | 18,039
Fair value hedges | $ | 2,117 | | $ | 2,065 
Net investment hedges | $ | 8,751 | | $ | 9,472 
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments: | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | $ | 34,979 | | $ | 39,722
Other contracts | $ | 7,932 | | $ | 10,818

The fair values of outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2022 | | As of December 31, 2023
 | Assets(1) | | Liabilities(2) | | Assets(1) | | Liabilities(2)
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments: | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | $ | 271 | | | $ | 556 | | $ | 205 | $ | 242
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments: | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | 365 | | | 207 | | | 134 | | 156
Other contracts | 40 | | | 47 | | | 114 | | 47 
Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments | 405 | | | 254 | | | 248 | | 203
Total | $ | 676 | | | $ | 810 | | $ | 453 | $ | 445

(1)    Derivative assets are recorded as other current and non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
(2)    Derivative liabilities are recorded as accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The gains (losses) on derivatives in cash flow hedging and net investment hedging relationships recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI) are summarized below (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | $ | 806 | | | $ | 1,699 | | $ | 90 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 48 | | | (188) | | | 84 
Derivatives in net investment hedging relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | 754 | | | 608 | | | (287)
Total | $ | 1,608 | | | $ | 2,119 | | $ | (113)

69. 



Alphabet Inc.

The table below presents the gains (losses) of our derivatives on the Consolidated Statements of Income: (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023 
 | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net
Total amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Income | $ | 257,637 | | | $ | 12,020 | | $ | 282,836 | | | $ | (3,514) | | | $ | 307,394 | $ | 1,424
Effect of cash flow hedges: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount reclassified from AOCI to income | $ | 165 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 2,046 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 213 | $ | 0 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness (amortized) | (16) | | | 0 | | | (85) | | 0 | | | 24 | | | 0 | 
Effect of fair value hedges: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Hedged items | 0 | | | (95) | | | 0 | | (162) | | | 0 | | | 59 | 
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments | 0 | | | 95 | | | 0 | | 163 | | | 0 | | | (59) | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 8 | | | 0 | | 16 | | | 0 | | | 15 | 
Effect of net investment hedges: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 82 | | | 0 | | 171 | | | 0 | | | 187 | 
Effect of non designated hedges: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | 0 | | | (860) | | | 0 | (395) | | | 0 | | | 7 | 
Other contracts | 0 | | | 101 | | | 0 | | 144 | | | 0 | | | 53 | 
Total gains (losses) | $ | 149 | | | $ | (669) | | $ | 1,961 | | | $ | (63) | | | $ | 237 | $ | 262 

Offsetting of Derivatives
We enter into master netting arrangements and collateral security arrangements to reduce credit risk. Cash collateral received related to derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included in other current assets with a corresponding liability. Cash and non-cash collateral pledged related to derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included in other current assets.
70. 



Alphabet Inc.

The gross amounts of derivative instruments subject to master netting arrangements with various counterparties, and cash and non-cash collateral received and pledged under such agreements were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2022 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts Recognized | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Amounts Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments(1) | Cash and Non-Cash Collateral Received or Pledged | | Net Amounts
Derivatives assets | $ | 760 | | $ | (84) | | $ | 676 | | $ | (463) | $ | (132) | $ | 81 
Derivatives liabilities | $ | 894 | | $ | (84) | | $ | 810 | | $ | (463) | $ | (28) | $ | 319
 | As of December 31, 2023 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross AmountsRecognized | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Amounts Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments(1) | Cash and Non-Cash Collateral Received or Pledged | | Net Amounts
Derivatives assets | $ | 535 | | $ | (82) | | $ | 453 | | $ | (213) | $ | (75) | $ | 165
Derivatives liabilities | $ | 527 | | $ | (82) | | $ | 445 | | $ | (213) | $ | (16) | $ | 216

(1)    The balances as of December 31, 2022 and 2023 were related to derivatives allowed to be net settled in accordance with our master netting agreements.
Note 4. Leases 
We have entered into operating lease agreements primarily for data centers, land, and offices throughout the world with lease periods expiring between 2024 and 2063. 
Components of operating lease expense were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Operating lease cost | $ | 2,699 | | | $ | 2,900 | | $ | 3,362
Variable lease cost | 726 | | | 838 | | | 1,182
Total operating lease cost | $ | 3,425 | | | $ | 3,738 | | $ | 4,544

Supplemental information related to operating leases was as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | 2023
Cash payments for operating leases | $ | 2,489 | | $ | 2,722 | $ | 3,173
New operating lease assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities | $ | 2,951 | | $ | 4,383 | $ | 2,877

71. 



Alphabet Inc.

As of December 31, 2023, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease term of 8.1 years and a weighted average discount rate of 3.1%. Future lease payments under operating leases as of December 31, 2023 were as follows (in millions):

2024 | $ | 3,179 
2025 | 2,929 | 
2026 | 2,450 | 
2027 | 1,951 | 
2028 | 1,488 | 
Thereafter | 5,685 | 
Total future lease payments | 17,682 | 
Less imputed interest | (2,431) | 
Total lease liability balance | $ | 15,251

As of December 31, 2023, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with short-term and long-term future lease payments of $657 million and $3.3 billion that are not yet recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between 2024 and 2026 with non-cancelable lease terms between one and 25 years.
Note 5. Variable Interest Entities 
Consolidated Variable Interest Entities
We consolidate VIEs in which we hold a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. The results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are included in our consolidated financial statements.
 For certain consolidated VIEs, their assets are not available to us and their creditors do not have recourse to us. As of December 31, 2022 and 2023, assets that can only be used to settle obligations of these VIEs were $4.1 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, and the liabilities for which creditors only have recourse to the VIEs were $2.6 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively. We may continue to fund ongoing operations of certain VIEs that are included within Other Bets. 
Total noncontrolling interests (NCI) in our consolidated subsidiaries were $3.8 billion and $3.4 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2023, respectively, of which $1.1 billion is redeemable noncontrolling interest (RNCI) for both periods. NCI and RNCI are included within additional paid-in capital. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was not material for any period presented and is included within the "other" component of OI&E. See Note 7 for further details on OI&E.
Unconsolidated Variable Interest Entities
We have investments in VIEs in which we are not the primary beneficiary. These VIEs include private companies that are primarily early stage companies and certain renewable energy entities in which activities involve power generation using renewable sources.
We have determined that the governance structures of these entities do not allow us to direct the activities that would significantly affect their economic performance. Therefore, we are not the primary beneficiary, and the results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are not included in our consolidated financial statements. We account for these investments primarily as non-marketable equity securities or equity method investments.
The maximum exposure of these unconsolidated VIEs is generally based on the current carrying value of the investments and any future funding commitments. The maximum exposure and carrying value of these unconsolidated VIEs were $2.8 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2022 and $5.7 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2023. The difference between the maximum exposure and the carrying value relates primarily to future funding commitments.
Note 6. Debt 
Short-Term Debt
We have a debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and 2023. 
Our short-term debt balance also includes the current portion of certain long-term debt.
72. 



Alphabet Inc.

Long-Term Debt
Total outstanding debt is summarized below (in millions, except percentages):

 | | | Effective Interest Rate | | As of December 31,
 | Maturity | Coupon Rate | | 2022 | | 2023 
Debt | | | | | | 
2014-2020 Notes issuances | 2024 - 2060 | 0.45% - 3.38% | 0.57% - 3.38% | | $ | 13,000 | | $ | 13,000
Future finance lease payments, net and other (1) | | | | | 2,142 | | 1,746 | 
Total debt | | | | | 15,142 | | 14,746 | 
Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs | | | | | (143) | | (130) | 
Less: Current portion of long-term notes(2) | | | | | 0 | | (1,000) | 
Less: Current portion of future finance lease payments, net and other current debt(1)(2) | | | | | (298) | | (363) | 
Total long-term debt | | | | | $ | 14,701 | | $ | 13,253

(1)Future finance lease payments are net of imputed interest.
(2)Total current portion of long-term debt is included within other accrued expenses and current liabilities. See Note 7 for further details.
The notes in the table above are fixed-rate senior unsecured obligations and generally rank equally with each other. We may redeem the notes at any time in whole or in part at specified redemption prices. The effective interest rates are based on proceeds received with interest payable semi-annually.
The total estimated fair value of the outstanding notes was approximately $9.9 billion and $10.3 billion as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2023, respectively. The fair value was determined based on observable market prices of identical instruments in less active markets and is categorized accordingly as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
As of December 31, 2023, the aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt, including finance lease liabilities, for each of the next five years and thereafter were as follows (in millions):

2024 | $ | 1,299 
2025 | 1,163
2026 | 2,165
2027 | 1,143
2028 | 132 
Thereafter | 8,960
Total | $ | 14,862

Credit Facility
As of December 31, 2023, we had $10.0 billion of revolving credit facilities, of which $4.0 billion expires in April 2024 and $6.0 billion expires in April 2028. The interest rates for all credit facilities are determined based on a formula using certain market rates, as well as our progress toward the achievement of certain sustainability goals. No amounts were outstanding under the credit facilities as of December 31, 2022 and 2023.
Note 7. Supplemental Financial Statement Information 
Accounts Receivable
The allowance for credit losses on accounts receivable was $754 million and $771 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2023, respectively.
73. 



Alphabet Inc.

Property and Equipment, Net
Property and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Land and buildings | $ | 66,897 | | | $ | 74,083 
Information technology assets | 66,267 | | | 80,594 | 
Construction in progress | 27,657 | | | 35,229 | 
Leasehold improvements | 10,575 | | | 11,425 | 
Furniture and fixtures | 314 | | | 472 | 
Property and equipment, gross | 171,710 | | | 201,803 | 
Less: accumulated depreciation | (59,042) | | | (67,458) | 
Property and equipment, net | $ | 112,668 | | | $ | 134,345

Our technical infrastructure is comprised of information technology assets, including servers and networking equipment, and data center land and buildings.
Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
European Commission fines(1) | $ | 9,106 | | | $ | 9,525 
Accrued purchases of property and equipment | 3,019 | | | 4,679 | 
Accrued customer liabilities | 3,619 | | | 4,140 | 
Current operating lease liabilities | 2,477 | | | 2,791 | 
Income taxes payable, net | 1,632 | | | 2,748 | 
Other accrued expenses and current liabilities | 18,013 | | | 22,285 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | $ | 37,866 | | | $ | 46,168

(1)    While each EC decision is under appeal, the fines are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines. Amounts include the effects of foreign exchange and interest. See Note 10 for further details.
74. 



Alphabet Inc.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Components of AOCI, net of income tax, were as follows (in millions):

 | Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Investments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges | | Total 
Balance as of December 31, 2020 | $ | (864) | | | $ | 1,612 | | $ | (115) | $ | 633 
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (1,442) | | | (1,312) | | | 668 | | (2,086)
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | 48 | | 48 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (64) | | | (154) | | (218) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,442) | | | (1,376) | | | 562 | | (2,256)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 | (2,306) | | | 236 | | | 447 | | (1,623)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (1,836) | | | (4,720) | | | 1,463 | | (5,093)
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | (188) | | (188) 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 1,007 | | | (1,706) | | (699) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,836) | | | (3,713) | | | (431) | | (5,980)
Balance as of December 31, 2022 | (4,142) | | | (3,477) | | | 16 | | (7,603)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | 735 | | | 1,344 | | | 84 | | 2,163 
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | 84 | | 84 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 1,168 | | | (214) | | 954 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 735 | | | 2,512 | | | (46) | | 3,201 
Balance as of December 31, 2023 | $ | (3,407) | | | $ | (965) | | $ | (30) | $ | (4,402)

The effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI were as follows (in millions):

 | | | Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI to the Consolidated Statements of Income | 
 | | | Year Ended December 31, | 
AOCI Components | | Location | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023 | 
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments | | | | | | 
 | | Other income (expense), net | $ | 82 | | | $ | (1,291) | | | $ | (1,497)
 | | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | (18) | | | 284 | | | 329 | | 
 | | Net of income tax | 64 | | | (1,007) | | | (1,168) | | 
Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | Revenue | 165 | | | 2,046 | | | 213 | | 
Interest rate contracts | | Other income (expense), net | 6 | | | 6 | | | 6 | | 
 | | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | (17) | | | (346) | | | (5) | | 
 | | Net of income tax | 154 | | | 1,706 | | | 214 | | 
Total amount reclassified, net of income tax | $ | 218 | | | $ | 699 | | | $ | (954) | | 

75. 



Alphabet Inc.

Other Income (Expense), Net 
Components of OI&E were as follows (in millions): 

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Interest income | $ | 1,499 | | | $ | 2,174 | | $ | 3,865
Interest expense(1) | (346) | | | (357) | | | (308) 
Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net | (240) | | | (654) | | | (1,238)
Gain (loss) on debt securities, net | (110) | | | (2,064) | | | (1,215)
Gain (loss) on equity securities, net | 12,380 | | | (3,455) | | | 392 
Performance fees | (1,908) | | | 798 | | | 257 
Income (loss) and impairment from equity method investments, net | 334 | | | (337) | | | (628) 
Other | 411 | | | 381 | | | 299 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 12,020 | | | $ | (3,514) | | $ | 1,424

(1)    Interest expense is net of interest capitalized of $163 million, $128 million, and $181 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, respectively.
Note 8. Workforce Reduction and Other Initiatives 
We have a company-wide effort underway to re-engineer our cost base. As part of this program, in January 2023, we announced a reduction of our workforce. As a result, total employee severance and related charges recorded during the year ended December 31, 2023 were $2.1 billion. Substantially all of the employees affected were no longer included in our headcount as of December 31, 2023.
In addition, we are taking actions to optimize our global office space. As a result, exit charges recorded during the year ended December 31, 2023, were $1.8 billion as reflected in the table below. In addition to these exit charges, for the year ended December 31, 2023, we incurred $269 million in accelerated rent and accelerated depreciation, which are not included in the table below.
Severance and office space exit charges are included within our consolidated statements of income as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31, 2023
 | Severance and Related (1) | | Office Space | Total
Cost of revenues | $ | 479 | | $ | 481 | $ | 960 
Research and development | 848 | | 870 | | 1,718
Sales and marketing | 497 | | 257 | | 754 
General and administrative | 264 | | 237 | | 501 
Total charges | $ | 2,088 | | $ | 1,845 | $ | 3,933

(1)Severance includes amounts to be settled in cash, accounted for as one-time involuntary employee termination benefits, and SBC.
For segment reporting, the substantial majority of these charges are included within Alphabet-level activities in our segment results.
For the year ended December 31, 2023, changes in liabilities resulting from the severance charges and related accruals were as follows (in millions):

 | Severance and Related
Balance as of December 31, 2022 | $ | 0 
Charges(1) | 1,656 | 
Cash payments | (1,579) | 
Balance as of December 31, 2023(2) | $ | 77

(1)Excludes non-cash SBC of $432 million.
(2)Included in accrued compensation and benefits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
76. 



Alphabet Inc.

Note 9. Goodwill
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023 were as follows (in millions):

 | Google Services | | Google Cloud | | Other Bets | | Total
Balance as of December 31, 2021 | $ | 19,826 | | | $ | 2,337 | | $ | 793 | $ | 22,956
Acquisitions | 1,176 | | | 4,876 | | | 119 | | 6,171 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | (155) | | | (8) | | | (4) | | (167) 
Balance as of December 31, 2022 | 20,847 | | | 7,205 | | | 908 | | 28,960
Acquisitions | 240 | | | 3 | | | 0 | | 243 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | 31 | | | (9) | | | (27) | | (5) 
Balance as of December 31, 2023 | $ | 21,118 | | | $ | 7,199 | | $ | 881 | $ | 29,198

Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies 
Commitments
We have content licensing agreements with future fixed or minimum guaranteed commitments of $10.6 billion as of December 31, 2023, of which the majority is paid over seven years ending in the first quarter of 2030.
Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, including to facilitate transactions in our services and products and corporate activities, we indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network partners, distribution partners, customers of Google Cloud offerings, lessors, and service providers with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to defend and/or hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.
It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 
As of December 31, 2023, we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible.
Legal Matters
We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred, and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. We evaluate developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments as appropriate.
Certain outstanding matters seek speculative, substantial or indeterminate monetary amounts, substantial changes to our business practices and products, or structural remedies. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood of there being a loss and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters, and we may be unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of losses. The outcomes of outstanding legal matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, and could, either individually or in aggregate, have a material adverse effect.
We expense legal fees in the period in which they are incurred.
77. 



Alphabet Inc.

Antitrust Investigations
On November 30, 2010, the EC's Directorate General for Competition opened an investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against us.
On June 27, 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017) fine. On September 11, 2017, we appealed the EC decision to the General Court, and on September 27, 2017, we implemented product changes to bring shopping ads into compliance with the EC's decision. We recognized a charge of $2.7 billion for the fine in the second quarter of 2017. On November 10, 2021, the General Court rejected our appeal, and we subsequently filed an appeal with the European Court of Justice on January 20, 2022.
On July 18, 2018, the EC announced its decision that certain provisions in Google’s Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018) fine and directed the termination of the conduct at issue. On October 9, 2018, we appealed the EC decision, and on October 29, 2018, we implemented changes to certain of our Android distribution practices. On September 14, 2022, the General Court reduced the fine from €4.3 billion to €4.1 billion. We subsequently filed an appeal with the European Court of Justice. In 2018, we recognized a charge of $5.1 billion for the fine, which we reduced by $217 million in 2022.
On March 20, 2019, the EC announced its decision that certain contractual provisions in agreements that Google had with AdSense for Search partners infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a fine of €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019) and directed actions related to AdSense for Search partners' agreements, which we implemented prior to the decision. On June 4, 2019, we appealed the EC decision. We recognized a charge of $1.7 billion for the fine in the first quarter of 2019.
From time to time we are subject to formal and informal inquiries and investigations on various competition matters by regulatory authorities in the U.S., Europe, and other jurisdictions globally. Examples, for which given their nature we cannot estimate a possible loss, include:
•In August 2019, we began receiving civil investigative demands from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) requesting information and documents relating to our prior antitrust investigations and certain aspects of our business. The DOJ and a number of state Attorneys General filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on October 20, 2020 alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws relating to Search and Search advertising. The trial ended on November 16, 2023, and we expect a decision in 2024. Further, in June 2022, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) and the United Kingdom's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) each opened an investigation into Search distribution practices.
•On December 16, 2020, a number of state Attorneys General filed an antitrust complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws as well as state deceptive trade laws relating to its advertising technology, and a trial is scheduled for March 2025. Additionally, on January 24, 2023, the DOJ, along with a number of state Attorneys General, filed an antitrust complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia alleging that Google’s digital advertising technology products violate U.S. antitrust laws, and on April 17, 2023, a number of additional state Attorneys General joined the complaint. The EC, the CMA, and the ACCC each opened a formal investigation into Google's advertising technology business practices on June 22, 2021, May 25, 2022, and June 29, 2022, respectively. On June 14, 2023, the EC issued a Statement of Objections (SO) informing Google of its preliminary view that Google violated European antitrust laws relating to its advertising technology. We responded to the SO on December 1, 2023.
•On July 7, 2021, a number of state Attorneys General filed an antitrust complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that Google’s operation of Android and Google Play violated U.S. antitrust laws and state antitrust and consumer protection laws. In September 2023, we reached a settlement in principle with 50 state Attorneys General and three territories. The U.S. District Court subsequently vacated the trial date with the states, and any final approval of the settlement is expected to occur in 2024. In May 2022, the EC and the CMA each opened investigations into Google Play’s business practices. Korean regulators are investigating Google Play's billing practices, including a formal review in May 2022 of Google's compliance with the new app store billing regulations. 
We believe we have strong arguments against these claims and will defend ourselves vigorously. We continue to cooperate with federal and state regulators in the U.S., the EC, and other regulators around the world.
78. 



Alphabet Inc.

Privacy Matters 
We are subject to a number of privacy-related laws and regulations, and we currently are party to a number of privacy investigations and lawsuits ongoing in multiple jurisdictions. For example, there are ongoing investigations and litigation in the U.S. and the EU, including those relating to our collection and use of location information and advertising practices, which could result in significant fines, judgments, and product changes. 
Patent and Intellectual Property Claims
We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe others' intellectual property rights. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services. As a result, we may have to change our business practices and develop non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. In addition, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) has increasingly become an important forum to litigate intellectual property disputes because an ultimate loss in an ITC action can result in a prohibition on importing infringing products into the U.S. Because the U.S. is an important market, a prohibition on importation could have an adverse effect on us, including preventing us from importing many important products into the U.S. or necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features of our products.
Furthermore, many of our agreements with our customers and partners require us to indemnify them against certain intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. In addition, our customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business.
Other
We are subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. For example, in December 2023, a California jury delivered a verdict in Epic Games v. Google finding that Google violated antitrust laws related to Google Play's business. The presiding judge will determine remedies in 2024, and the range of potential remedies vary widely. We plan to appeal. We also periodically have data incidents that we report to relevant regulators as required by law. 
These claims, consent orders, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings could result in substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing monitoring and auditing obligations, changes to our products and services, alterations to our business models and operations, and collateral related civil litigation or other adverse consequences, all of which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
We have ongoing legal matters relating to Russia. For example, civil judgments that include compounding penalties have been imposed upon us in connection with disputes regarding the termination of accounts, including those of sanctioned parties. We do not believe these ongoing legal matters will have a material adverse effect.
Non-Income Taxes
We are under audit by various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to non-income tax matters. The subject matter of non-income tax audits primarily arises from disputes on the tax treatment and tax rate applied to the sale of our products and services in these jurisdictions and the tax treatment of certain employee benefits. We accrue non-income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and judicial process in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome may be materially different from our expectations.
See, Note 14 for information regarding income tax contingencies.
79. 



Alphabet Inc.

Note 11. Stockholders' Equity 
Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock
Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock.
Share Repurchases
In the years ended December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, we repurchased $50.3 billion, $59.3 billion, and $62.2 billion, respectively, of Alphabet's Class A and Class C shares.
In April 2023, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $70.0 billion of its Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2023, $36.3 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases. 
The following table presents Class A and Class C shares repurchased and subsequently retired (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31, 2022 | Year Ended December 31, 2023
 | Shares | Amount | | Shares | | Amount
Class A share repurchases | 61 | $ | 6,719 | | | 78 | | $ | 9,316 
Class C share repurchases | 469 | 52,577 | | | 450 | | 52,868 | 
Total share repurchases(1) | 530 | $ | 59,296 | | | 528 | | $ | 62,184

(1) Shares repurchased include unsettled repurchases as of December 31, 2023.
Class A and Class C shares are repurchased in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. Repurchases are executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
Note 12. Net Income Per Share 
We compute net income per share of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares and the effect of potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist of RSUs and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect of outstanding RSUs and other contingently issuable shares is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. The computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A stock assumes the conversion of Class B stock, while the diluted net income per share of Class B stock does not assume the conversion of those shares.
The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, of the holders of our Class A, Class B, and Class C stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Furthermore, there are a number of safeguards built into our certificate of incorporation, as well as Delaware law, which preclude our Board of Directors from declaring or paying unequal per share dividends on our Class A, Class B, and Class C stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments to our certificate of incorporation which would have the effect of adversely altering the rights, powers, or preferences of a given class of stock must be approved by the class of stock adversely affected by the proposed amendment. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that before any such amendment may be put to a stockholder vote, it must be approved by the unanimous consent of our Board of Directors. As a result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based on the contractual participation rights of the Class A, Class B, and Class C stock as if the earnings for the year had been distributed. As the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated on a proportionate basis. 
In the years ended December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, the net income per share amounts are the same for Class A, Class B, and Class C stock because the holders of each class are entitled to equal per share dividends or distributions in liquidation in accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Alphabet Inc.
80. 



Alphabet Inc.

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock (in millions, except per share amounts):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 34,200 | | | $ | 5,174 | | $ | 36,659
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 6,006 | | | 909 | | | 6,438
Basic net income per share | $ | 5.69 | | | $ | 5.69 | | $ | 5.69 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 34,200 | | | $ | 5,174 | | $ | 36,659
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 5,174 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (581) | | | (77) | | | 581 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 38,793 | | | $ | 5,097 | | $ | 37,240
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 6,006 | | | 909 | | | 6,438
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A shares outstanding | 909 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 0 | | | 0 | | | 200 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 6,915 | | | 909 | | | 6,638
Diluted net income per share | $ | 5.61 | | | $ | 5.61 | | $ | 5.61 


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 27,518 | | | $ | 4,072 | | $ | 28,382
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 5,994 | | | 887 | | | 6,182
Basic net income per share | $ | 4.59 | | | $ | 4.59 | | $ | 4.59 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 27,518 | | | $ | 4,072 | | $ | 28,382
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 4,072 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (230) | | | (30) | | | 230 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 31,360 | | | $ | 4,042 | | $ | 28,612
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 5,994 | | | 887 | | | 6,182
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A shares outstanding | 887 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 0 | | | 0 | | | 96 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 6,881 | | | 887 | | | 6,278
Diluted net income per share | $ | 4.56 | | | $ | 4.56 | | $ | 4.56 

81. 



Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2023 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 34,601 | | | $ | 5,124 | | $ | 34,070
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 5,922 | | | 877 | | | 5,831
Basic net income per share | $ | 5.84 | | | $ | 5.84 | | $ | 5.84 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 34,601 | | | $ | 5,124 | | $ | 34,070
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 5,124 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (287) | | | (37) | | | 287 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 39,438 | | | $ | 5,087 | | $ | 34,357
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 5,922 | | | 877 | | | 5,831
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A shares outstanding | 877 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 0 | | | 0 | | | 92 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 6,799 | | | 877 | | | 5,923
Diluted net income per share | $ | 5.80 | | | $ | 5.80 | | $ | 5.80 

Note 13. Compensation Plans 
Stock Plans
Our stock plans include the Alphabet Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan ("Alphabet 2021 Stock Plan") and Other Bets stock-based plans. Under our stock plans, RSUs and other types of awards may be granted. Under the Alphabet 2021 Stock Plan, an RSU award is an agreement to issue shares of our Class C stock at the time the award vests. RSUs generally vest over four years contingent upon employment on the vesting date.
As of December 31, 2023, there were 723 million shares of Class C stock reserved for future issuance under the Alphabet 2021 Stock Plan.
Stock-Based Compensation
For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, total SBC expense was $15.7 billion, $19.5 billion, and $22.1 billion, including amounts associated with awards we expect to settle in Alphabet stock of $15.0 billion, $18.8 billion, and $21.7 billion, respectively.
During the year ended December 31, 2023, total SBC expense includes $432 million associated with workforce reduction costs. See Note 8 for further details.
For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, we recognized tax benefits on total SBC expense, which are reflected in the provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income, of $3.1 billion, $3.9 billion, and $4.5 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, tax benefit realized related to awards vested or exercised during the period was $5.9 billion, $4.7 billion, and $5.6 billion, respectively. These amounts do not include the indirect effects of stock-based awards, which primarily relate to the R&D tax credit.
Stock-Based Award Activities
82. 



Alphabet Inc.

The following table summarizes the activities for unvested Alphabet RSUs for the year ended December 31, 2023 (in millions, except per share amounts):

 | Unvested Restricted Stock Units
 | Number of Shares | Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Value
Unvested as of December 31, 2022 | 324 | | $ | 107.98
Granted | 263 | | $ | 97.59 
Vested | (217) | | $ | 100.36
Forfeited/canceled | (32) | | $ | 106.56
Unvested as of December 31, 2023 | 338 | | $ | 104.93

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022 was $97.46 and $127.22, respectively. Total fair value of RSUs, as of their respective vesting dates, during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, were $28.8 billion, $23.9 billion, and $26.6 billion, respectively.
As of December 31, 2023, there was $33.5 billion of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSUs. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years.
Note 14. Income Taxes 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes consisted of the following (in millions):
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Domestic operations | $ | 77,016 | | | $ | 61,307 | | $ | 73,600
Foreign operations | 13,718 | | | 10,021 | | | 12,117
Total | $ | 90,734 | | | $ | 71,328 | | $ | 85,717

Provision for income taxes consisted of the following (in millions):
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Current: | | | | | 
Federal and state | $ | 10,126 | | | $ | 17,120 | | $ | 17,125
Foreign | 2,692 | | | 2,434 | | | 2,526 
Total | 12,818 | | | 19,554 | | | 19,651 
Deferred: | | | | | 
Federal and state | 2,018 | | | (8,052) | | | (7,482)
Foreign | (135) | | | (146) | | | (247) 
Total | 1,883 | | | (8,198) | | | (7,729)
Provision for income taxes | $ | 14,701 | | | $ | 11,356 | | $ | 11,922

83. 



Alphabet Inc.

The reconciliation of federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate was as follows:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
U.S. federal statutory tax rate | 21.0 | % | | 21.0 | % | 21.0 | %
Foreign income taxed at different rates | 0.2 | | | 3.0 | | 0.3 | 
Foreign-derived intangible income deduction | (2.5) | | | (5.4) | | (4.6) | 
Stock-based compensation expense | (2.5) | | | (1.2) | | (0.8) | 
Federal research credit | (1.6) | | | (2.2) | | (1.8) | 
Deferred tax asset valuation allowance | 0.6 | | | 0.9 | | 0.6 | 
State and local income taxes | 1.0 | | | 0.8 | | 1.0 | 
Effect of tax law change | 0.0 | | | 0.0 | | (1.4) | 
Other | 0.0 | | | (1.0) | | (0.4) | 
Effective tax rate | 16.2 | % | | 15.9 | % | 13.9 | %

In 2022, there was an increase in the U.S. Foreign Derived Intangible Income tax deduction from the effects of capitalization and amortization of R&D expenses starting in 2022 as required by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
In 2023, the IRS issued a rule change allowing taxpayers to temporarily apply the regulations in effect prior to 2022 related to U.S. federal foreign tax credits as well as a separate rule change with interim guidance on the capitalization and amortization of R&D expenses. A cumulative one-time adjustment applicable to the prior period for these tax rule changes was recorded in 2023.
Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Deferred tax assets: | | | 
Accrued employee benefits | $ | 955 | | | $ | 1,855 
Accruals and reserves not currently deductible | 1,956 | | | 2,481 | 
Tax credits | 6,002 | | | 6,609 | 
Net operating losses | 2,557 | | | 2,965 | 
Operating leases | 2,711 | | | 3,526 | 
Capitalized research and development(1) | 10,381 | | | 17,757 | 
Other | 2,289 | | | 1,951 | 
Total deferred tax assets | 26,851 | | | 37,144 | 
Valuation allowance | (9,553) | | | (10,999) | 
Total deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance | 17,298 | | | 26,145 | 
Deferred tax liabilities: | | | 
Property and equipment, net | (6,607) | | | (8,189) | 
Net investment gains | (2,361) | | | (2,405) | 
Operating leases | (2,491) | | | (2,965) | 
Other | (1,092) | | | (902) | 
Total deferred tax liabilities | (12,551) | | | (14,461) | 
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) | $ | 4,747 | | | $ | 11,684

(1)As required by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, effective January 1, 2022, our research and development expenditures were capitalized and amortized which resulted in substantially higher cash taxes starting in 2022 with an equal amount of deferred tax benefit.
As of December 31, 2023, our federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $7.1 billion, $18.6 billion, and $1.8 billion respectively. If not utilized, the federal net 
84. 



Alphabet Inc.

operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2024, foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2025 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2029. It is more likely than not that the majority of the net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized; therefore, we have recorded a valuation allowance against them. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various annual limitations under the tax laws of the different jurisdictions.
As of December 31, 2023, our Federal and California research and development credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $600 million and $6.3 billion, respectively. If not utilized, the Federal R&D credit will begin to expire in 2037 and the California R&D credit can be carried over indefinitely. We believe the majority of the federal tax credit and state tax credit is not likely to be realized.
As of December 31, 2023, our investment tax credit carryforwards for state income tax purposes were approximately $1.0 billion and will begin to expire in 2029. We use the flow-through method of accounting for investment tax credits. We believe this tax credit is not likely to be realized.
As of December 31, 2023, we maintained a valuation allowance with respect to California deferred tax assets, certain federal net operating losses, certain state net operating losses and tax credits, net deferred tax assets relating to Other Bet companies, and certain foreign net operating losses that we believe are not likely to be realized. We continue to reassess the remaining valuation allowance quarterly, and if future evidence allows for a partial or full release of the valuation allowance, a tax benefit will be recorded accordingly. 
Uncertain Tax Positions
The following table summarizes the activity related to our gross unrecognized tax benefits (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Beginning gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 3,837 | | | $ | 5,158 | | $ | 7,055
Increases related to prior year tax positions | 529 | | | 253 | | | 740 
Decreases related to prior year tax positions | (263) | | | (437) | | | (682)
Decreases related to settlement with tax authorities | (329) | | | (140) | | | (21) 
Increases related to current year tax positions | 1,384 | | | 2,221 | | | 2,346
Ending gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 5,158 | | | $ | 7,055 | | $ | 9,438

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $5.2 billion, $7.1 billion, and $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, respectively, of which $3.7 billion, $5.3 billion, and $7.4 billion, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate, respectively. 
As of December 31, 2022 and 2023, we accrued $346 million and $622 million in interest and penalties in provision for income taxes, respectively.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions. Our two major tax jurisdictions are the U.S. federal and Ireland. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS is currently examining our 2016 through 2021 tax returns. We have also received tax assessments in multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. We continue to defend such claims as presented.
The tax years 2016 through 2022 remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits in various other jurisdictions that are not material to our financial statements.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the effect, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
We believe that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management's expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolutions occur. Although the timing of resolution, settlement, and closure of audits is not certain, it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits from certain U.S. federal, state, and non U.S. tax positions could decrease by approximately $700 million in the next 12 months. Positions that may be resolved include various U.S. and non-U.S. matters.
85. 



Alphabet Inc.

Note 15. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas 
We report our segment results as Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets:
•Google Services includes products and services such as ads, Android, Chrome, devices, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Google Services generates revenues primarily from advertising; fees received for consumer subscription-based products such as YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket; the sale of apps and in-app purchases and devices.
•Google Cloud includes infrastructure and platform services, collaboration tools, and other services for enterprise customers. Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from consumption-based fees and subscriptions received for Google Cloud Platform services, Google Workspace communication and collaboration tools, and other enterprise services.
•Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of healthcare-related services and internet services.
Revenues, certain costs, such as costs associated with content and traffic acquisition, certain engineering activities, and devices, as well as certain operating expenses are directly attributable to our segments. Due to the integrated nature of Alphabet, other costs and expenses, such as technical infrastructure and office facilities, are managed centrally at a consolidated level. These costs, including the associated depreciation and impairment, are allocated to operating segments as a service cost generally based on usage, headcount, or revenue.
Reflecting DeepMind's increasing collaboration with Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets, beginning in the first quarter of 2023 DeepMind is reported as part of Alphabet-level activities instead of within Other Bets. Additionally, beginning in the first quarter of 2023, we updated and simplified our cost allocation methodologies to provide our business leaders with increased transparency for decision-making. Prior periods have been recast to conform to the current presentation.
As announced on April 20, 2023, we brought together part of Google Research (the Brain team) and DeepMind to significantly accelerate our progress in artificial intelligence (AI). The group, called Google DeepMind, is reported within Alphabet-level activities prospectively beginning in the second quarter of 2023. Previously, the Brain team was included within Google Services.
Certain costs are not allocated to our segments because they represent Alphabet-level activities. These costs primarily include AI-focused shared R&D activities, including development costs of our general AI models; corporate initiatives such as our philanthropic activities; corporate shared costs such as certain finance, human resource, and legal costs, including certain fines and settlements. Charges associated with reductions in our workforce and office space during 2023 were not allocated to our segments. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related to revenue are not allocated to our segments.
Our operating segments are not evaluated using asset information.
The following table presents information about our segments (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
Revenues: | | | | | 
Google Services | $ | 237,529 | | | $ | 253,528 | | $ | 272,543
Google Cloud | 19,206 | | | 26,280 | | | 33,088 
Other Bets | 753 | | | 1,068 | | | 1,527 
Hedging gains (losses) | 149 | | | 1,960 | | | 236 
Total revenues | $ | 257,637 | | | $ | 282,836 | | $ | 307,394
Operating income (loss): | | | | | 
Google Services | $ | 88,132 | | | $ | 82,699 | | $ | 95,858 
Google Cloud | (2,282) | | | (1,922) | | | 1,716 
Other Bets | (4,051) | | | (4,636) | | | (4,095)
Alphabet-level activities | (3,085) | | | (1,299) | | | (9,186)
Total income from operations | $ | 78,714 | | | $ | 74,842 | | $ | 84,293 

See Note 2 for information relating to revenues by geography.
86. 



Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents long-lived assets by geographic area, which includes property and equipment, net and operating lease assets (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Long-lived assets: | | | 
United States | $ | 93,565 | | | $ | 110,053
International | 33,484 | | | 38,383 | 
Total long-lived assets | $ | 127,049 | | | $ | 148,436

87. 



Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2023, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed at a reasonable assurance level and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2023 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2023. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with our Audit and Compliance Committee. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs.
88. 



Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 9B.OTHER INFORMATION
10b5-1 Trading Plans
During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2023, the following Section 16 officer and directors adopted, modified or terminated a “Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement” (as defined in Item 408 of Regulation S-K of the Exchange Act):
•John Hennessy, Chair of the Board of Directors, through the John L. Hennessy & Andrea J. Hennessy Revocable Trust, adopted a new trading plan on November 1, 2023 (with the first trade under the new plan scheduled for February 12, 2024). The trading plan will be effective until March 12, 2025 to sell 6,664 shares of Class C Capital Stock and 11,336 shares of Class A Common Stock.
•Ann Mather, former member of the Board of Directors, terminated her trading plan on October 30, 2023, effective with her resignation from the Board of Directors. The trading plan previously permitted the sale of 12,580 shares of Class C Capital Stock and would have been effective until June 2, 2024.
•Ruth M. Porat, President and Chief Investment Officer; Chief Financial Officer, adopted a new trading plan on November 30, 2023 (with the first trade under the new plan scheduled for March 8, 2024). The trading plan will be effective until March 8, 2025 to sell all of the (net) shares of up to 82,900 (gross) Class C Capital Stock issued upon the vesting of her Alphabet 2021 Performance Stock Units, as adjusted based on performance (net shares are net of tax withholding).
There were no “non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangements” (as defined in Item 408 of Regulation S-K of the Exchange Act) adopted, modified or terminated during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2023 by our directors and Section 16 officers. Each of the Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangements are in accordance with our Policy Against Insider Trading and actual sale transactions made pursuant to such trading arrangements will be disclosed publicly in Section 16 filings with the SEC in accordance with applicable securities laws, rules and regulations.
Required Disclosure Pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act
As previously disclosed, Google LLC, a subsidiary of Alphabet, filed notifications with the Russian Federal Security Service pursuant to Russian encryption control requirements, which must be complied with prior to the import of covered items. The information provided pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act in Part II, Item 5 of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2023 is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS
Not applicable.
89. 



Alphabet Inc.

PART III
ITEM 10.DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement for the 2024 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 (2024 Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports” in the 2024 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 11.EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the 2024 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference, except as to information disclosed therein pursuant to Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K relating to pay versus performance.
ITEM 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the 2024 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 13.CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Director Independence” in the 2024 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 14.PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in the 2024 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
90. 



Alphabet Inc.

PART IV
ITEM 15.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
We have filed the following documents as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
1. Consolidated Financial Statements

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 48
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 

2. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
The table below details the activity of the allowance for credit losses and sales credits for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023 (in millions):

 | Balance atBeginning of Year | | Additions | Usage | | Balance atEnd of Year
Year ended December 31, 2021 | $ | 1,344 | | $ | 2,092 | | $ | (2,047) | $ | 1,389
Year ended December 31, 2022 | $ | 1,389 | | $ | 2,125 | | $ | (2,301) | $ | 1,213
Year ended December 31, 2023 | $ | 1,213 | | $ | 3,115 | | $ | (2,737) | $ | 1,591


Note: | Additions to the allowance for credit losses are charged to expense. Additions to the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues.

All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or the required information is otherwise included.
3. Exhibits
ExhibitNumber | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | Date 
2.01 | | Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 2, 2015, by and among Google Inc., the Registrant and Maple Technologies Inc. | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
3.01 | | Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | June 3, 2022 
3.02 | | Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, dated October 19, 2022 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 25, 2022
4.01 | | Specimen Class A Common Stock certificate | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.02 | | Specimen Class C Capital Stock certificate | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.03 | | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.04 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Larry Page and certain of his affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.05 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Sergey Brin and certain of his affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.06 | | Joinder Agreement, dated December 31, 2021, among the Registrant, Sergey Brin and certain of his affiliates | Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-37580) | February 2, 2022

91. 



Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date 
4.07 | | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Eric E. Schmidt and certain of its affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.08 | | | Class C Undertaking, dated October 2, 2015, executed by the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.09 | | | Indenture, dated February 12, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209510) | February 12, 2016
4.10 | | | Registrant Registration Rights Agreement dated December 14, 2015 | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209518) | February 12, 2016
4.11 | | | First Supplemental Indenture, dated April 27, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | April 27, 2016 
4.12 | | | Form of the Registrant’s 3.375% Notes due 2024 (included in Exhibit 4.11) | | 
4.13 | | | Form of the Registrant’s 1.998% Note due 2026 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 9, 2016 
4.14 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 0.450% notes due 2025 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.15 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 0.800% notes due 2027 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.16 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 1.100% notes due 2030 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.17 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 1.900% notes due 2040 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.18 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 2.050% notes due 2050 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.19 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 2.250% notes due 2060 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.20 | | | Description of Registrant’s Securities | Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-37580) | February 3, 2023 
10.01 | u | | Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between the Registrant, its affiliates and its directors and officers | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.02 | u | * | Form of Offer Letter for Directors | | 
10.03 | u | | Offer Letter, dated March 20, 2015, between Ruth Porat and Google Inc., as assumed by the Registrant on October 2, 2015 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36380) | March 26, 2015 
10.04 | u | | Compensation Plan Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.05 | u | | Director Arrangements Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.06 | u | | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.07 | u | | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | June 5, 2020 
10.07.1 | u | | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 001-37580) | February 4, 2020 
10.07.2 | u | | Alphabet Inc. 2012 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-37580) | November 3, 2016 

92. 



Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | Date 
10.08 | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (file No. 001-37580) | June 3, 2022 
10.08.1 | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (file No. 001-37580) | July 28, 2021 
10.08.2 | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-37580) | July 26, 2023 
10.08.3 | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet 2022 CEO Performance Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-37580) | February 3, 2023
10.08.4 | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet 2022 Non-CEO Performance Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 001-37580) | February 4, 2020
10.08.5 | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet 2023 Non-CEO Performance Stock Unit Agreement | Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-37580) | July 26, 2023 
10.09 | u | Alphabet Inc. Company Bonus Plan, as amended | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 001-37350) | February 2, 2023
21.01 | * | Subsidiaries of the Registrant | | 
23.01 | * | Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | | 
24.01 | * | Power of Attorney (incorporated by reference to the signature page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) | | 
31.01 | * | Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
31.02 | * | Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
32.01 | ‡ | Certifications of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
97.01 | * | Clawback Policy | | 
101.INS | * | Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document | | 
101.SCH | * | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document | | 
101.CAL | * | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document | | 
101.DEF | * | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document | | 
101.LAB | * | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document | | 

93. 



Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein
 | Form | Date 
101.PRE | * | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document | 
104 | | Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document and contained in Exhibit 101) | 

_________________
u | Indicates management compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement.
* | Filed herewith. 
‡ | Furnished herewith. 

ITEM 16.FORM 10-K SUMMARY
None.
94. 



Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 1.BUSINESS
Overview
As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history, inspiring us to tackle big problems and invest in moonshots, such as our long-term opportunities in artificial intelligence (AI). We continue this work under the leadership of Alphabet and Google CEO Sundar Pichai.
Alphabet is a collection of businesses — the largest of which is Google. We report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud; we also report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Alphabet's structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence. 
Access and technology for everyone
The Internet is one of the world’s most powerful equalizers; it propels ideas, people and businesses large and small. Our mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful is as relevant today as it was when we were founded in 1998. Since then, we have evolved from a company that helps people find answers to a company that also helps people get things done. 
We are focused on building an even more helpful Google for everyone, and we aspire to give everyone the tools they need to increase their knowledge, health, happiness, and success. Google Search helps people find information and make sense of the world in more natural and intuitive ways, with trillions of searches on Google every year. YouTube provides people with entertainment, information, and opportunities to learn something new. Google Assistant offers the best way to get things done seamlessly across different devices, providing intelligent help throughout a person's day, no matter where they are. Google Cloud helps customers solve today’s business challenges, improve productivity, reduce costs, and unlock new growth engines. We are continually innovating and building new products and features that will help our users, partners, customers, and communities and have invested more than $100 billion in research and development in the last five years in support of these efforts.

Alphabet Inc.

Moonshots
Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. We continue to look toward the future and to invest for the long term within each of our segments. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in, as they are the key to our long-term success.
The power of AI
We believe that AI is a foundational and transformational technology that will provide compelling and helpful benefits to people and society through its capacity to assist, complement, empower, and inspire people in almost every field of human endeavor. As an information and computer science company, we will continue to be at the forefront of advancing the frontier of AI. Through our path-breaking and field-defining research and development, we responsibly and boldly develop more capable and useful AI every day. 
AI already powers Google’s core products that help billions of people every day and has been at the foundation of our core ads quality systems for years, helping large and small businesses all over the world to produce and run effective and efficient ad campaigns that help grow their businesses. AI makes it possible to search in new languages, with multiple inputs, such as using images and text at the same time with the Google App. Some of our most popular products at Google — including Lens and Translate — were built entirely using artificial intelligence technologies such as optical character recognition and machine learning. Google Cloud continues to build AI into numerous solutions that our customers can use to develop AI-powered applications — including processing documents, images, and translation — to understand and analyze data more efficiently, and to use packaged solutions for a variety of industries. In all these examples, AI significantly enhances the usefulness and multiplies the value of these products and services to people and organizations.
Our view is that AI is now, and more than ever, critical to delivering on our mission. As we bring our breakthrough AI innovations into the real world to assist people and benefit society everywhere, we are also pursuing further advancements that will help to unlock scientific discoveries and to tackle humanity's greatest challenges and opportunities.
Privacy and security
We make it a priority to protect the privacy and security of our products, users, and customers, even if there are near-term financial consequences. We do this by continuously investing in building products that are secure by default; strictly upholding responsible data practices that emphasize privacy by design; and building easy-to-use settings that put people in control. We are continually enhancing these efforts over time, whether by enabling users to auto-delete their data, giving them new tools, such as My Ad Center, to control their ad experience, or advancing anti-malware, anti-phishing, and password security features.
Google
For reporting purposes Google comprises two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud.
Google Services
Serving our users
We have always been committed to building helpful products that can improve the lives of millions of people worldwide. Our product innovations are what make our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google Services' core products and platforms include ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google Play, Search, and YouTube, with broad and growing adoption by users around the world.
Our products and services have come a long way since the company was founded more than two decades ago. Rather than the ten blue links in our early search results, users can now get direct answers to their questions using their computer or mobile device, their own voice, a photo, or an image, making it quicker, easier, and more natural to find what they are looking for. Of the searches we see every day, 15% are new.
This drive to make information more accessible and helpful has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content both on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. People are consuming many forms of digital content, including watching videos, playing games, listening to music, reading books, 

Alphabet Inc.

and using apps. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to find great digital content.
Fueling all of these great digital experiences are extraordinary platforms and hardware. That is why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, and Chrome operating system, as well as growing our family of hardware devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful and make people's lives easier by combining the best of our AI, software, and hardware. This potential is reflected in our latest generation of hardware products such as the new Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro, and the very first Pixel Watch. Creating products that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long-term.
How we make money
We have built world-class advertising technologies for advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses through our wide range of products across devices and formats, and we aim to ensure positive user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. 
Google Services generates revenues primarily by delivering both performance and brand advertising that appears on Google Search & other properties, YouTube, and Google Network partners' properties ("Google Network properties"). We continue to invest in both performance and brand advertising and seek to improve the measurability of advertising so advertisers understand the effectiveness of their campaigns.
•Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. Our ads tools allow performance advertisers to create simple text-based ads.
•Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity for advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns. 
We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, including filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions of bad ads from our systems every year, and closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blocklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content.
We continue to focus on growing revenues beyond advertising, from Google Play, hardware, and YouTube subscriptions, such as: 
•Google Play generates revenues from sales of apps and in-app purchases.
•Hardware generates revenues from sales of Fitbit wearable devices, Google Nest home products, and Pixel devices.
•YouTube non-advertising generates subscription revenues from services such as YouTube Premium and YouTube TV.
Google Cloud
Google was a company built in the cloud, and we continue to invest in our Google Cloud offerings, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace. Google Cloud Platform provides leading technology in cybersecurity; data, analytics, AI, and machine learning; and infrastructure. Our cybersecurity products help customers detect, protect, and respond to a broad range of cybersecurity threats. Our data cloud unifies data lakes, data warehouses, data governance, and advanced machine learning into a single platform that can analyze data across any cloud. We provide customers an open, reliable, and scalable infrastructure that enables them to run workloads anywhere — on our Cloud, at the edge, or in their data centers. Additionally, Google Workspace's easy-to-use and secure communication and collaboration tools, which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Meet, and more, enable secure hybrid work, boosting productivity and collaboration. 
Other Bets
 Across Alphabet we are also using technology to try to solve big problems that affect a wide variety of industries from improving transportation and health technology to exploring solutions to address climate change. Alphabet’s investment in the portfolio of Other Bets includes businesses that are at various stages of development, ranging from those in the R&D phase to those that are in the beginning stages of commercialization. Our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses. Other Bets operate as independent companies and some of them have their own 

Alphabet Inc.

boards with independent members and outside investors. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of health technology and internet services.
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, including, among others, from:
•general purpose search engines and information services;
•vertical search engines and e-commerce providers for queries related to travel, jobs, and health, which users may navigate directly to rather than go through Google;
•online advertising platforms and networks;
•other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television as our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline;
•digital content and application platform providers;
•providers of enterprise cloud services;
•companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer hardware products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms;
•providers of digital video services; 
•social networks, which users may rely on for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines;
•providers of workspace communication and connectivity products; and 
•digital assistant providers.
Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to develop and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace across our businesses. For example, for advertising, competing successfully depends on attracting and retaining:
•users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely on the basis of the relevance of our advertising, as well as the general usefulness, security, and availability of our products and services;
•advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels; and
•content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.
For additional information about competition, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Ongoing Commitment to Sustainability
We believe that every business has the opportunity and obligation to protect our planet. Sustainability is one of our core values at Google, and we strive to build sustainability into everything we do. We have been a leader on sustainability and climate change since Google’s founding more than 20 years ago. These are some of our key achievements over the past two decades:
•In 2007, we became the first major company to be carbon neutral for our operations.
•In 2017, we became the first major company to match 100% of our annual electricity use with renewable energy, which we have achieved for five consecutive years.
•In 2020, we issued $5.75 billion in sustainability bonds—the largest sustainability or green bond issuance by any company in history at the time. The net proceeds from the issuance were used to fund environmentally and socially responsible projects in the following eight areas: energy efficiency, clean energy, green buildings, clean transportation, circular economy and design, affordable housing, commitment to racial equity, and support for small businesses and COVID-19 crisis response. As of 2022, we had fully allocated the net proceeds from our sustainability bonds as outlined in our Sustainability Bond Impact Report published in 2022.
Our sustainability strategy is focused on three key pillars: accelerating the transition to carbon-free energy and a circular economy, empowering everyone with technology, and benefiting the people and places where we operate.

Alphabet Inc.

To accelerate the transition to a carbon-free and circular economy, in 2020, we launched our third decade of climate action, and we are now working toward a new set of ambitious goals. By 2030, we aim to:
•achieve net-zero emissions across all of our operations and value chain, including our consumer hardware products;
•become the first major company to run on carbon-free energy 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year;
•enable 5 gigawatts of new carbon-free energy through investments in our key manufacturing regions; and
•help more than 500 cities and local governments reduce an aggregate of 1 gigaton (one billion tons) of carbon emissions annually.
 We also aim to maximize the reuse of finite resources across our operations, products, and supply chains and to enable others to do the same.
 We are committed to helping people make more sustainable choices by empowering them with technology. We introduced eco-friendly routing in Google Maps; new features to book flights or purchase appliances that have lower carbon footprints; and when people come to Google Search with questions about climate change, we show information from authoritative sources like the United Nations.
To benefit the people and places where we operate, we have set goals to replenish more water than we consume by 2030 and to support water security in communities where we operate. We are focused on three areas: enhancing our stewardship of water resources across Google offices and data centers; replenishing our water use and improving watershed health and ecosystems in water-stressed communities; and sharing technology and tools that help everyone predict, prevent, and recover from water stress. At Google we remain steadfast in our commitment to sustainability, and we will continue to lead and encourage others to join us in improving the health of our planet. We are proud of what we have achieved so far, and we are energized to help move the world closer to a more sustainable and carbon-free future for all.
More information on our approach to sustainability can be found in our annual sustainability reports, including Google’s Environmental Report. The contents of our sustainability reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. For additional information about risks and uncertainties applicable to our commitments to attain certain sustainability goals, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Culture and Workforce
We are a company of curious, talented, and passionate people. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex challenges in technology and society.
Our people are critical for our continued success, so we work hard to create an environment where employees can have fulfilling careers, and be happy, healthy, and productive. We offer industry-leading benefits and programs to take care of the diverse needs of our employees and their families, including opportunities for career growth and development, resources to support their financial health, and access to excellent healthcare choices. Our competitive compensation programs help us to attract and retain top candidates, and we will continue to invest in recruiting talented people to technical and non-technical roles, and rewarding them well. We provide a variety of high quality training and support to managers to build and strengthen their capabilities-–ranging from courses for new managers, to learning resources that help them provide feedback and manage performance, to coaching and individual support.
At Alphabet we are committed to making diversity, equity, and inclusion part of everything we do and to growing a workforce that is representative of the users we serve. More information on Google’s approach to diversity can be found in our annual diversity reports, available publicly at diversity.google. The contents of our diversity reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC.
 As of December 31, 2022, Alphabet had 190,234 employees. We have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, and we are committed to supporting protected labor rights, maintaining an open culture, and listening to all employees. Supporting healthy and open dialogue is central to how we work, and we communicate information about the company through multiple internal channels to our employees.
When necessary we contract with businesses around the world to provide specialized services where we do not have appropriate in-house expertise or resources, often in fields that require specialized training like cafe operations, content moderation, customer support, and physical security. We also contract with temporary staffing agencies when we need to cover short-term leaves, when we have spikes in business needs, or when we need to quickly incubate 

Alphabet Inc.

special projects. We choose our partners and staffing agencies carefully, and review their compliance with Google’s Supplier Code of Conduct. We continually make improvements to promote a respectful and positive working environment for everyone — employees, vendors, and temporary staff alike.
Government Regulation
We are subject to numerous United States (U.S.) federal, state, and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subjects. Like other companies in the technology industry, we face heightened scrutiny from both U.S. and foreign governments with respect to our compliance with laws and regulations. Many of these laws and regulations are evolving and their applicability and scope, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain. Particularly with regard to data privacy and security; content moderation; competition; consumer protection; climate change and sustainability; and reporting on human capital and diversity, we have seen an increase in new and evolving laws and regulations, as well as related enforcement actions, being proposed and implemented in recent years by legislative bodies around the world.
Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and could, individually or in the aggregate, increase our cost of doing business, make our products and services less useful, limit our ability to pursue certain business models, cause us to change our business practices, affect our competitive position relative to our peers, and/or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
For additional information about government regulation applicable to our business, see Risk Factors in Item 1A; Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect in Part II, Item 7; and Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Intellectual Property
We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names, and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties. For additional information, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Available Information
Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments to these reports, is available via a link through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file or furnish them with the SEC and they are available on the SEC's website.
We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance and other items that may be material or of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. We also share Google news and product updates on Google's Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, that may be material or of interest to our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website. The contents of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results, and affect the trading price of our Class A and Class C stock.
Risks Specific to our Company
We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising. Reduced spending by advertisers, a loss of partners, or new and existing technologies that block ads online and/or affect our ability to customize ads could harm our business. 
We generated more than 80% of total revenues from online advertising in 2022. Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content providers can terminate their contracts with us at any time. These partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value 

Alphabet Inc.

(such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. Changes to our advertising policies and data privacy practices, as well as changes to other companies’ advertising and/or data privacy practices have in the past, and may in the future, affect the advertising that we are able to provide. In addition, technologies have been developed that make customized ads more difficult or that block the display of ads altogether, and some providers of online services have integrated these technologies that could potentially impair the availability and functionality of third-party digital advertising. Failing to provide superior value or deliver advertisements effectively and competitively could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to correlate with overall economic conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions have affected, and may in the future affect, the demand for advertising, resulting in fluctuations in the amounts our advertisers spend on advertising, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, customers, and other partners, we may not remain competitive, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
Our business environment is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our businesses face changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of rival products and services. To compete successfully, we must accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies in a timely manner. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services. We must continue to invest significant resources in R&D, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our technology and new and existing products and services. 
We have many competitors in different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Some competitors have longer operating histories and well established relationships in various sectors. They can use their experience and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in R&D and in talent, initiating intellectual property and competition claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete for users, advertisers, customers, and content providers. Further, discrepancies in enforcement of existing laws may enable our lesser known competitors to aggressively interpret those laws without commensurate scrutiny, thereby affording them competitive advantages. Our competitors may also be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the need for products and services before us. 
Our financial condition and operating results may also suffer if our products and services are not responsive to the evolving needs and desires of our users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. As new and existing technologies continue to develop, competitors and new entrants may be able to offer experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. These technologies could reduce usage of our products and services, and force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources to develop and operate equal or better products and services. Competitors’ success in providing compelling products and services or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
Our ongoing investment in new businesses, products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could divert management attention and harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The investments that we are making across our businesses, such as in AI, reflect our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. Our investments span a wide range of industries beyond online advertising. Such investments ultimately may not be commercially viable or may not result in an adequate return of capital and, in pursuing new strategies, we may incur unanticipated liabilities. These endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion of resources and management attention from current operations and the use of alternative investment, governance, or compensation structures that may fail to adequately align incentives across the company or otherwise accomplish their objectives. 
Within Google Services, we continue to invest heavily in hardware, including our smartphones, home devices, and wearables, which is a highly competitive market with frequent introduction of new products and services, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in performance characteristics, and price and feature sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. There can be no assurance we will be able to provide hardware that competes effectively. 

Alphabet Inc.

Within Google Cloud, we devote significant resources to develop and deploy our enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace. We are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services, invest in cybersecurity, and hire talent, particularly to support and scale our sales force. At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services. Pricing and delivery models are competitive and constantly evolving, and we may not attain sufficient scale and profitability to achieve our business objectives. Further, our business with public sector customers may present additional risks, including regulatory compliance risks. For instance, we may be subject to government audits and cost reviews, and any failure to comply or any deficiencies found may expose us to legal, financial, and/or reputational risks. Evolving laws and regulations may require us to make new capital investments, build new products, and seek partners to deliver localized services in other countries, and we may not be able to meet sovereign operating requirements. 
Within Other Bets, we are investing significantly in the areas of health, life sciences, and transportation, among others. These investment areas face intense competition from large, experienced, and well-funded competitors, and our offerings, many of which involve the development of new and emerging technologies, may not be successful, or be able to compete effectively or operate at sufficient levels of profitability. 
In addition, new and evolving products and services, including those that use AI, require significant investment and raise ethical, technological, legal, regulatory, and other challenges, which may negatively affect our brands and demand for our products and services. Because all of these investment areas are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful or will not harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future. 
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including changes in the devices and modalities used to access our products and services; changes in geographic mix; deceleration or declines in advertiser spending; competition; customer usage and demand for our products; decreases in our pricing of our products and services; ongoing product and policy changes; and shifts to lower priced products and services. 
In addition, we may also experience downward pressure on our operating margin resulting from a variety of factors, such as the continued expansion of our business into new fields, including products and services such as hardware, Google Cloud, and subscription products, as well as significant investments in Other Bets, all of which may have margins lower than those we generate from advertising. In particular, margins on our hardware products have had, and may continue to have, an adverse affect on our consolidated margins due to pressures on pricing and higher cost of sales. We may also experience downward pressure on our operating margins from increasing regulations, increasing competition, and increasing costs for many aspects of our business. Further, certain of our costs and expenses are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate to changes in revenue. Additionally, in conjunction with our efforts to re-engineer costs, we may not be able to execute these efforts in a timely manner or these efforts may not be successful. Due to these factors and the evolving nature of our business, our historical revenue growth rate and historical operating margin may not be indicative of our future performance. For additional information, see Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect and Revenues and Monetization Metrics in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brands as well as affect our ability to compete. 
Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services, and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. There is always the possibility that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. 
We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of such trade secrets and other sensitive information could be compromised, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word “Google” could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word “search.” Some courts have ruled that "Google" is a protectable trademark, but it is possible that other courts, particularly those outside of the U.S., 

Alphabet Inc.

may reach a different determination. If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word “Google” to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand. 
Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our financial condition and operating results. 
Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. 
Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products and services that better serve the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our brands have been, and may in the future be, negatively affected by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy and security issues and developments, and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to respond appropriately to the sharing of misinformation or objectionable content on our services and/or products or objectionable practices by advertisers, or otherwise to adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence in our brands. 
Furthermore, failure to maintain and enhance our brands could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our success will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, trustworthy, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a valuable role in a range of settings. 
We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management, which could affect our ability to supply both our products and our services. 
We rely on contract manufacturers to manufacture or assemble our hardware products and servers and networking equipment used in our technical infrastructure, and we may supply the contract manufacturers with components to assemble the hardware products and equipment. We also rely on other companies to participate in the distribution of our products and services. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage these companies with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them. 
We have experienced and/or may in the future experience supply shortages, price increases, and/or longer lead times that could negatively affect our operations, driven by raw material, component availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, logistics capacity, inflation, foreign currency exchange rates, tariffs, sanctions and export controls, trade disputes and barriers, geopolitical tensions, armed conflicts, natural disasters or pandemics, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, heat waves, wildfires and resultant air quality effects and power shutoffs associated with wildfire prevention, and increased storm severity), power loss, and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. In addition, some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and our hardware products are available from only one or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms in the event of a supply chain disruption. A significant supply interruption that affects us or our vendors could delay critical data center upgrades or expansions and delay consumer product availability. 
We may enter into long-term contracts for materials and products that commit us to significant terms and conditions. We may face costs for materials and products that are not consumed due to market demand, technological change, changed consumer preferences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because certain of our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and harm our financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect our supply. 
Our products and services have had, and in the future may have, quality issues resulting from design, manufacturing, or operations. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other 

Alphabet Inc.

manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products and services does not meet expectations or our products or services are defective, it could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
We require our suppliers and business partners to comply with laws and, where applicable, our company policies and practices, such as the Google Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance, and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. Violations of law or unethical business practices could result in supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, harm to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. Their failure to procure necessary license rights to intellectual property could affect our ability to sell our products or services and expose us to litigation or financial claims. 
Interruption to, interference with, or failure of our complex information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
The availability of our products and services and fulfillment of our customer contracts depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage, interference, or interruption from modifications or upgrades, terrorist attacks, state-sponsored attacks, natural disasters or pandemics, geopolitical tensions or armed conflicts, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, heat waves, wildfires and resultant air quality effects and power shutoffs associated with wildfire prevention, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, software bugs, ransomware attacks, computer denial of service attacks, phishing schemes, or other attempts to harm or access our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and, in some cases, to potential disruptions resulting from problems experienced by facility operators or disruptions as a result of geopolitical tensions and conflicts happening in the area. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster or pandemic, closure of a facility, or other unanticipated problems affecting our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and have contained in the past, and may contain in the future, errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in or failure of our services or systems. Any of these incidents could impede or prevent us from effectively offering products and providing services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.
Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 51% of our consolidated revenues in 2022. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following:
•restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;
•import and export requirements, tariffs, and other market access barriers that may prevent or impede us from offering products or providing services to a particular market, or that could limit our ability to source assemblies and finished products from a particular market, and may increase our operating costs;
•longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud;
•an evolving foreign policy landscape that may adversely affect our revenues and could subject us to new regulatory costs and challenges (including new customer requirements), in addition to other adverse effects that we are unable to effectively anticipate;
•sanctions, export controls, and trade restrictions that limit our ability to operate in certain jurisdictions or to comply with local laws, including as a result of geopolitical tensions or armed conflicts, such as the ongoing conflict in Ukraine;
•political unrest, conflict, and changes in governmental regimes that may adversely affect demand and usage of our products and services, may limit the ability for people in certain areas to access and use our products and services, or may impede us from offering products or providing services to a particular market; 
•anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting certain payments to government officials, violations of which could result in civil and criminal penalties;

Alphabet Inc.

•uncertainty regarding regulatory outcomes and other liabilities, including uncertainty as a result of local laws, insufficient due process, and lack of legal precedent; and
•different employee/employer relationships, existence of works councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions.
Because we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we have faced, and will continue to face, exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
We are exposed to fluctuations in the fair values of our investments and, in some instances, our financial statements incorporate valuation methodologies that are subjective in nature resulting in fluctuations over time. 
The fair value of our investments may in the future be, and certain investments have been in the past, negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, performance and financial results of the underlying entities, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates, including changes that may result from the implementation of new benchmark rates, the effect of new or changing regulations, the stock market in general, or other factors. 
We measure certain of our non-marketable equity and debt securities, certain other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled in the stock of certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. The determination of fair value involves use of appropriate valuation methods and certain unobservable inputs, requires management judgment and estimation, and may change over time. We adjust the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities to fair value for observable transactions of identical or similar investments of the same issuer or for impairments. All gains and losses on non-marketable equity securities, are recognized in other income (expense), which increases the volatility of our other income (expense). The unrealized gains and losses we record from fair value remeasurements of our non-marketable equity securities in any particular period may differ significantly from the gains or losses we ultimately realize on such investments. 
As a result of these factors, the value of our investments could decline, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
Risks Related to our Industry 
People access the Internet through a variety of platforms and devices that continue to evolve with the advancement of technology and user preferences. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our products and services developed for these interfaces, our business could be harmed. 
People access the Internet through a growing variety of devices such as desktop computers, mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-activated speakers, wearables, automobiles, and television-streaming devices. Our products and services may be less popular on some interfaces. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not be available or may only be available with limited functionality for our users or our advertisers on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries may be undertaken via voice-activated search, apps, social media or other platforms, which could harm our business. It is hard to predict the challenges we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to creating and supporting products and services across multiple platforms and devices. Failing to attract and retain a substantial number of new device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users, or failing to develop products and technologies that work well on new devices and platforms, could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results and ability to capture future business opportunities. 
Data privacy and security concerns relating to our technology and our practices could harm our reputation, cause us to incur significant liability, and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. Computer viruses, software bugs or defects, security breaches, and attacks on our systems could result in the improper disclosure and use of user data and interference with our users’ and customers’ ability to use our products and services, harming our business and reputation. 
Concerns about, including the adequacy of, our practices with regard to the collection, use, governance, disclosure, or security of personal data or other data-privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our policies and practices may change over time as expectations and regulations regarding privacy and data change. 

Alphabet Inc.

Our products and services involve the storage, handling, and transmission of proprietary and other sensitive information. Software bugs, theft, misuse, defects, vulnerabilities in our products and services, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss or improper use and disclosure of such information, which could result in litigation and other potential liabilities, including regulatory fines and penalties, as well as reputational harm. Additionally, our products incorporate highly technical and complex technologies, and thus our technologies and software have contained, and are likely in the future to contain, undetected errors, bugs, and/or vulnerabilities. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, some errors in our software code only after we have released the code. Systems and control failures, security breaches, failure to comply with our privacy policies, and/or inadvertent disclosure of user data could result in government and legal exposure, seriously harm our reputation, brand, and business, and impair our ability to attract and retain users or customers. Such incidents have occurred in the past and may continue to occur due to the scale and nature of our products and services. While there is no guarantee that such incidents will not cause significant damage, we expect to continue to expend significant resources to maintain security protections that limit the effect of bugs, theft, misuse, and security vulnerabilities or breaches. 
We experience cyber attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems on a regular basis. Cyber attacks continue to evolve in sophistication and volume, and inherently may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. We have seen, and will continue to see, industry-wide software supply chain vulnerabilities, such as the Log4j vulnerability reported in December 2021, which could affect our or other parties’ systems. We expect to continue to experience such incidents or vulnerabilities in the future. Our efforts to address undesirable activity on our platform may also increase the risk of retaliatory attack. In addition, we face the risk of cyber attacks by nation-states and state-sponsored actors. These attacks may target us or our customers, particularly our public sector customers (including federal, state, and local governments). Geopolitical tensions or armed conflicts, such as the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, may increase these risks. 
We may experience security issues, whether due to employee or insider error or malfeasance, system errors, or vulnerabilities in our or other parties’ systems. While we may not determine some of these issues to be material at the time they occur and may remedy them quickly, there is no guarantee that these issues will not ultimately result in significant legal, financial, and reputational harm, including government inquiries, enforcement actions, litigation, and negative publicity. There is also no guarantee that a series of issues may not be determined to be material at a later date in the aggregate, even if they may not be material individually at the time of their occurrence. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, disable or degrade service provided by or otherwise sabotage systems change frequently and often are recognized only after being launched against a target, even taking all reasonable precautions, including those required by law, we have been unable in the past and may continue to be unable to anticipate or detect attacks or vulnerabilities or implement adequate preventative measures. 
Further, if any partners with whom we share user or other customer information fail to implement adequate data-security practices, fail to comply with our terms and policies, or otherwise suffer a network or other security breach, our users’ data may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. If an actual or perceived breach of our or our business partners’ or service providers’ security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures would be harmed, we could lose users and customers, our trade secrets or those of our business partners may be compromised, and we may be exposed to significant legal and financial risks, including legal claims (which may include class-action litigation) and regulatory actions, fines, and penalties. Any of the foregoing consequences could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
While we have dedicated significant resources to privacy and security incident response capabilities, including dedicated worldwide incident response teams, our response process, particularly during times of a natural disaster or pandemic, may not be adequate, may fail to accurately assess the severity of an incident, may not be fast enough to prevent or limit harm, or may fail to sufficiently remediate an incident. As a result, we may suffer significant legal, reputational, or financial exposure, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
For additional information, see also our risk factor on privacy and data protection regulations under ‘Risks Related to Laws, Regulations, and Policies’ below.
Our ongoing investments in safety, security, and content review will likely continue to identify abuse of our platforms and misuse of user data. 
In addition to our efforts to prevent and mitigate cyber attacks, we are making significant investments in safety, security, and review efforts to combat misuse of our services and unauthorized access to user data by third parties, including investigation and review of platform applications that could access the information of users of our services. As a result of these efforts, we have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, incidents of unnecessary access to or misuse of user data or other undesirable activity by third parties. However, we may not have discovered, and may in the future not discover, all such incidents or activity, whether as a result of our data limitations, including 

Alphabet Inc.

our lack of visibility over our encrypted services, the scale of activity on our platform, or other factors, including factors outside of our control such as a natural disaster or pandemic, and we may learn of such incidents or activity via third parties. Such incidents and activities may include the use of user data or our systems in a manner inconsistent with our terms, contracts or policies, the existence of false or undesirable user accounts, election interference, improper ad purchases, activities that threaten people’s safety on- or off-line, or instances of spamming, scraping, or spreading disinformation. While we may not determine some of these incidents to be material at the time they occurred and we may remedy them quickly, there is no guarantee that these issues will not ultimately result in significant legal, financial, and reputational harm, including government inquiries and enforcement actions, litigation, and negative publicity. There is also no guarantee that a series of issues may not be determined to be material at a later date in the aggregate, even if they may not be material individually at the time of their occurrence. 
We may also be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our policies or otherwise prevent or remediate any such incidents. Any of the foregoing developments may negatively affect user trust and engagement, harm our reputation and brands, require us to change our business practices in ways that harm our business operations, and adversely affect our business and financial results. Any such developments may also subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result in monetary penalties and damages, divert management’s time and attention, and lead to enhanced regulatory oversight. 
Problematic content on our platforms, including low-quality user-generated content, web spam, content farms, and other violations of our guidelines could affect the quality of our services, which could harm our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. 
We, like others in the industry, face violations of our content guidelines across our platforms, including sophisticated attempts by bad actors to manipulate our hosting and advertising systems to fraudulently generate revenues, or to otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine user interest or intent. While we invest significantly in efforts to promote high-quality and relevant results and to detect and prevent low-quality content and invalid traffic, we have been unable and may continue to be unable to detect and prevent all such abuses or promote uniformly high-quality content. 
Many websites violate or attempt to violate our guidelines, including by seeking to inappropriately rank higher in search results than our search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. Such efforts have affected, and may continue to affect, the quality of content on our platforms and lead them to display false, misleading, or undesirable content. Although English-language web spam in our search results has been reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek inappropriate ways to improve their rankings. We continuously combat web spam in our search results, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We also continue to invest in and deploy proprietary technology to detect and prevent web spam on our platforms. We also face other challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes designed to detect and prevent abuse from low-quality websites. We also face other challenges on our platforms, including violations of our content guidelines involving incidents such as attempted election interference, activities that threaten the safety and/or well-being of our users on- or off-line, and the spreading of misinformation or disinformation. 
If we fail to either detect and prevent an increase in problematic content or effectively promote high-quality content, it could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information or reduce use of our platforms, harming our financial condition and operating results. It may also subject us to litigation and regulatory actions, which could result in monetary penalties and damages and divert management’s time and attention. 
Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. 
Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take, measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings, or by providing our competitors preferential access. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms of discrimination by internet access providers; however, substantial uncertainty exists in the U.S. and elsewhere regarding such protections. For example, in 2018 the U.S. Federal Communications Commission repealed net neutrality rules, which could permit 

Alphabet Inc.

internet access providers to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. These could harm existing key relationships, including with our users, customers, advertisers, and/or content providers, and impair our ability to attract new ones; harm our reputation; and increase costs, thereby negatively affecting our business. 
Risks Related to Laws, Regulations, and Policies 
We are subject to a variety of new, existing, and changing laws and regulations worldwide that could harm our business, and will likely be subject to an even broader scope of laws and regulations as we continue to expand our business. 
We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subjects, and our introduction of new businesses, products, services, and technologies will likely continue to subject us to additional laws and regulations. In recent years, governments around the world have proposed and adopted a large number of new laws and regulations relevant to the digital economy, particularly in the areas of data privacy and security, competition, and online content. The costs of compliance with these measures are high and are likely to increase in the future. 
New or changing laws and regulations, or new interpretations or applications of existing laws and regulations in a manner inconsistent with our practices, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, less useful products and services, altered business practices, limited ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products and services, substantial costs, and civil or criminal liability. Examples include laws and regulations regarding: 
•Competition and technology platforms’ business practices: Laws and regulations focused on large technology platforms, including the Digital Markets Act in the European Union (EU); regulations in South Korea and elsewhere that affect Google Play’s billing policies, fees, and business model; as well as regulations under consideration in a range of jurisdictions.
•Data privacy, collection, and processing: Laws and regulations further restricting the collection, processing, and/or sharing of user or advertising-related data, including privacy and data protection laws, laws affecting the processing of children's data (as discussed further below), data breach notification laws, and laws limiting data transfers (including data localization laws). 
•Copyright and other intellectual property: Copyright and related laws, including the EU Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market and European Economic Area transpositions, which may introduce new licensing regimes, increase liability with respect to content uploaded by users or linked to from our platforms, or create property rights in news publications that could require payments to news agencies and publishers. 
•Content moderation: Various laws covering content moderation and removal, and related disclosure obligations, such as the EU's Digital Services Act, Florida’s Senate Bill 7072 and Texas’ House Bill 20, and laws and proposed legislation in Singapore, Australia, and the United Kingdom that impose penalties for failure to remove certain types of content or require disclosure of information about the operation of our services and algorithms, which may make it harder for services like Google Search and YouTube to detect and deal with low-quality, deceptive, or harmful content.
•Consumer protection: Consumer protection laws, including the EU’s New Deal for Consumers, which could result in monetary penalties and create a range of new compliance obligations.
In addition, the applicability and scope of these and other laws and regulations, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain and could be interpreted in ways that harm our business. For example, we rely on statutory safe harbors, like those set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act in the U.S. and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, to protect against liability for various linking, caching, ranking, recommending, and hosting activities. Legislation or court rulings affecting these safe harbors may adversely affect us and may impose significant operational challenges. There are legislative proposals and pending litigation in the U.S. (such as Gonzalez v. Google), EU, and around the world that could diminish or eliminate safe harbor protection for websites and online platforms. 
We are and may continue to be subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, enforcement actions, consent orders, and other forms of regulatory scrutiny and legal liability that could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
We are subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, and other matters. We also are subject to a variety of claims including 

Alphabet Inc.

product warranty, product liability, and consumer protection claims related to product defects, among other litigation, and we may also be subject to claims involving health and safety, hazardous materials usage, other environmental effects, or service disruptions or failures. Claims have been brought, and we expect will continue to be brought, against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright and trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, torts, privacy rights violations, fraud, or other legal theories based on the nature and content of information available on or via our services or due to our involvement in hosting, transmitting, marketing, branding, or providing access to content created by third parties. 
For example, the U.S. Department of Justice, various U.S. states, and other plaintiffs have filed several antitrust lawsuits about various aspects of our business, including our advertising technologies and practices, the operation and distribution of Google Search, and the operation and distribution of the Android operating system and Play Store. Other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and around the world, including competition enforcers, consumer protection agencies, and data protection authorities, have challenged and may continue to challenge our business practices and compliance with laws and regulations. We are cooperating with these investigations and defending litigation where appropriate. Various laws, regulations, investigations, enforcement lawsuits, and regulatory actions have in the past, and may in the future result in substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing monitoring and auditing obligations, changes to our products and services, alterations to our business models and operations, and collateral related civil litigation or other adverse consequences, all of which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Any of these legal proceedings could result in legal costs, diversion of management resources, negative publicity and other harms to our business. Estimating liabilities for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment, and the amounts we are ultimately liable for may exceed our estimates. The resolution of one or more such proceedings has resulted in, and may in the future result in, additional substantial fines, penalties, injunctions, and other sanctions that could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Privacy, data protection, and data usage regulations are complex and rapidly evolving areas. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Authorities around the world have adopted and are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, data usage, and encryption of user data. Adverse legal rulings, legislation, or regulation have resulted in, and may continue to result in, fines and orders requiring that we change our practices, which have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on how we provide services, harming our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. These laws and regulations are evolving and subject to interpretation, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur substantial costs or harm the quality and operations of our products and services in ways that harm our business. Examples of these laws include: 
•The General Data Protection Regulation and the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulations, which apply to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or the United Kingdom, respectively, or related to products and services that we offer to EU or the United Kingdom users or customers, respectively, or the monitoring of their behavior in the EU or the UK, respectively.
•Various state and foreign privacy laws and regulations, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, the California Privacy Rights Act, the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act, the Colorado Privacy Act, the Connecticut Data Privacy Act, and the Utah Consumer Privacy Act, all of which give new data privacy rights to their respective residents (including, in California, a private right of action in the event of a data breach resulting from our failure to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices) and impose significant obligations on controllers and processors of consumer data.
•State laws governing the processing of biometric information, such as the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act and the Texas Capture or Use of Biometric Identifier Act, which impose obligations on businesses that collect or disclose consumer biometric information. 
•Various federal, state, and foreign laws governing how companies provide age appropriate experiences to children and minors, including the collection and processing of children and minor’s data. These include the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, the United Kingdom Age-Appropriate Design Code, and the California Age Appropriate Design Code, all of which address the use and disclosure of the personal data of children and minors and impose obligations on online services or products directed to or likely to be accessed by children. 
•The California Internet of Things Security Law, which regulates the security of data used in connection with internet-connected devices.

Alphabet Inc.

•The EU’s Digital Markets Act, which will require in-scope companies to obtain user consent for combining data across certain products and require search engines to share anonymized data with rival companies, among other changes. 
Further, we are subject to evolving laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances we can transfer, process and/or receive personal data. Previously available transfer mechanisms, such as the EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks, were invalidated in 2020, and other bases for data transfer and storage, such as Standard Contractual Clauses, remain subject to ongoing review in ways that may require us to adapt our existing contractual arrangements. The validity of various data transfer mechanisms remains subject to legal, regulatory, and political developments in both Europe and the U.S., including the potential adoption of the U.S.-EU Data Privacy Framework. Until the U.S.-EU Data Privacy Framework is adopted by the EU, the legal uncertainty and ongoing enforcement action from supervisory authorities related to cross-border transfers of personal data, could harm our ability to process and transfer personal data outside of the European Economic Area and could in turn harm our ability to provide, and our customers’ ability to use, some of our products and services. 
We face, and may continue to face, intellectual property and other claims that could be costly to defend, result in significant damage awards or other costs (including indemnification awards), and limit our ability to use certain technologies. 
We, like other internet, technology, and media companies, are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright, trade secrets, and trademarks. Parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease-and-desist orders. In addition, patent-holding companies may frequently seek to generate income from patents they have obtained by bringing claims against us. As we continue to expand our business, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased and may continue to increase as we develop and acquire new products, services, and technologies. 
Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders limiting our ability to sell our products and services in the U.S. or elsewhere, including by preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services in certain jurisdictions. They may also cause us to change our business practices in ways that could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. 
Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to defend against certain intellectual property infringement claims and in some cases indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could result in increased costs for defending such claims or significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and harm our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers arising from intellectual property infringement claims. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims. Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. To the extent such claims are successful, they could harm our business, including our product and service offerings, financial condition, and operating results. 
Expectations relating to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) considerations could expose us to potential liabilities, increased costs, and reputational harm. 
We are subject to laws, regulations, and other measures that govern a wide range of topics, including those related to matters beyond our core products and services. For instance, new laws, regulations, policies, and international accords relating to ESG matters, including sustainability, climate change, human capital, and diversity, are being developed and formalized in Europe, the U.S., and elsewhere, which may entail specific, target-driven frameworks and/or disclosure requirements. We have implemented robust ESG programs, adopted reporting frameworks and principles, and announced a number of goals and initiatives. The implementation of these goals and initiatives may require considerable investments, and our goals, with all of their contingencies, dependencies, and in certain cases, reliance on third-party verification and/or performance, are complex and ambitious, may change, and we cannot guarantee that we will achieve them. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to adhere to our public statements, comply fully with developing interpretations of ESG laws and regulations, or meet evolving and varied stakeholder expectations and standards could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. 

Alphabet Inc.

We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection obligations in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates are affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings in jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, net gains and losses on hedges and related transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, decreases in our stock price for shares issued as employee compensation, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, and the application of different provisions of tax laws or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles (including changes in the interpretation of existing laws). Further, if we are unable or fail to collect taxes on behalf of customers, employees and partners as the withholding agent, we could become liable for taxes that are levied against third parties. 
We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions, on various tax-related assertions, such as transfer-pricing adjustments or permanent-establishment claims. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could harm our financial condition and operating results, require adverse changes to our business practices, or subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and often involves uncertainty. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. 
Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws, or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant changes in ways that could harm our financial condition and operating results. Various jurisdictions around the world have enacted or are considering revenue-based taxes such as digital services taxes and other targeted taxes, which could lead to inconsistent and potentially overlapping international tax regimes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development continues to advance proposals for modernizing international tax rules. 
Risks Related to Ownership of our Stock 
We cannot guarantee that any share repurchase program will be fully consummated or will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of our stock prices and could diminish our cash reserves. 
We engage in share repurchases of our Class A and Class C stock from time to time in accordance with authorizations from the Board of Directors of Alphabet. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date and does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. Further, our share repurchases could affect our share trading prices, increase their volatility, reduce our cash reserves and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading prices of our stock. 
The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. 
Our Class B stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A stock has one vote per share, and our Class C stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2022, Larry Page and Sergey Brin beneficially owned approximately 85.8% of our outstanding Class B stock, which represented approximately 51.2% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Through their stock ownership, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could continue Larry and Sergey’s current relative voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. The share repurchases made pursuant to our repurchase program may also affect Larry and Sergey’s relative voting power. This concentrated control limits or severely restricts other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial, which could reduce the market price of our Class A stock and our Class C stock. 
Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. 
Provisions in Alphabet’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: 
•Our Board of Directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director.
•Our stockholders may not act by written consent, which makes it difficult to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting.

Alphabet Inc.

•Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates.
•Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. 
•Our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock, which makes it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. 
As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the Board of Directors has approved the transaction. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. 
The trading price for our Class A stock and non-voting Class C stock may continue to be volatile. 
The trading price of our stock has at times experienced significant volatility and may continue to be volatile. In addition to the factors discussed in this report, the trading prices of our Class A stock and Class C stock have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate widely, in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others, the activities of our peers and changes in broader economic and political conditions around the world. These broad market and industry factors could harm the market price of our Class A stock and our Class C stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. 
General Risks 
The continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact are highly unpredictable and could be significant, and could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
Our business, operations and financial performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by the macroeconomic impacts resulting from COVID-19, and as a result, our revenue growth rate and expenses as a percentage of our revenues in future periods may differ significantly from our historical rates, and our future operating results may fall below expectations. The extent to which our business will continue to be affected will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the persistence of the pandemic, impacts on economic activity, and the possibility of recession or continued financial market instability. 
Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. 
Our operating results have fluctuated, and may in the future fluctuate, as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control, including the cyclicality and seasonality in our business and geopolitical events. As a result, comparing our operating results (including our expenses as a percentage of our revenues) on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and our past results should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. Consequently, our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. 
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and operating results. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of such potential strategic transactions, which could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Some of the areas where we face risks include: 
•diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic transactions; 
•failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of a transaction;
•failure to successfully integrate the acquired operations, technologies, services, and personnel (including cultural integration and retention of employees) and further develop the acquired business or technology; 
•implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company; 

Alphabet Inc.

•integration of the acquired company’s accounting and other administrative systems, and the coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions;
•transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms;
•in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; 
•failure to accomplish commercial, strategic or financial objectives with respect to investments and joint ventures;
•failure to realize the value of investments and joint ventures due to a lack of liquidity;
•liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, data privacy and security issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, warranty claims, product liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; and
•litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties.
Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. 
Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. 
Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. For instance, Sundar Pichai is critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries and plays an important role in the development of our technology, maintaining our culture, and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could harm our business. 
We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain and continue to adapt our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow or operate effectively. 
Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our ability to compete effectively and our future success depends on our continuing to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted, and may continue to target, our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Restrictive immigration policy and regulatory changes may also affect our ability to hire, mobilize, or retain some of our global talent. 
In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows and evolves, we may need to implement more complex organizational management structures or adapt our corporate culture and work environments to ever-changing circumstances, such as during times of a natural disaster or pandemic, and these changes could affect our ability to compete effectively or have an adverse effect on our corporate culture. As we experiment with hybrid work models, we may experience increased costs and/or disruption, in addition to potential effects on our ability to operate effectively and maintain our corporate culture. 
ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
Not applicable.

Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We own and lease office facilities and data centers around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, and Asia. We believe our existing facilities are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.
ITEM 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, see Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
PART II
ITEM 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
As of October 2, 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. Our Class A stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since August 19, 2004 and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. Our Class B stock is neither listed nor traded. Our Class C stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since April 3, 2014.
Holders of Record
As of December 31, 2022, there were approximately 6,670 and 1,657 stockholders of record of our Class A stock and Class C stock, respectively. Because many of our shares of Class A stock and Class C stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of December 31, 2022, there were approximately 64 stockholders of record of our Class B stock.
Dividend Policy
We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long-term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace, and form of capital return to stockholders.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class A and Class C stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2022: 

Period | Total Number of Class A Shares Purchased (in thousands)(1) | Total Number of Class C Shares Purchased (in thousands)(1) | | Average Price Paid per Class A Share(2) | Average Price Paid per Class C Share(2) | | Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(in thousands)(1) | Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (in millions)
October 1 - 31 | 8,585 | | 46,059 | | $ | 98.92 | | $ | 99.16 | 54,644 | $ | 38,069
November 1 - 30 | 1,968 | | 55,374 | | $ | 95.89 | | $ | 93.51 | 57,342 | $ | 32,703
December 1 - 31 | 4,687 | | 44,649 | | $ | 91.93 | | $ | 93.93 | 49,336 | $ | 28,079
Total | 15,240 | | 146,082 | | | | | 161,322 | 

(1)    The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases.
(2)    Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases.

Alphabet Inc.

Stock Performance Graphs
The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class A's cumulative 5-year total stockholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2022. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE 5-YEAR TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS A COMMON STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2017 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. 
Copyright© 2023 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.

Alphabet Inc.

The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class C's cumulative 5-year total stockholder return on capital stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our Class C capital stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2022. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE 5-YEAR TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS C CAPITAL STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2017 in stock or in index, including reinvestment of dividends.
Copyright© 2023 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.
ITEM 6.[Reserved]

Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with “Note about Forward-Looking Statements,” Part I, Item 1 "Business," Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors," and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
We have omitted discussion of 2020 results where it would be redundant to the discussion previously included in Item 7 of our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Understanding Alphabet’s Financial Results
Alphabet is a collection of businesses — the largest of which is Google. We report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud; we also report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. For further details on our segments, see Part I, Item 1 “Business” and Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect
The following long-term trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to affect our future results:
•Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves.
The continuing shift from an offline to online world has contributed to the growth of our business and our revenues since inception. We expect that this shift to an online world will continue to benefit our business and our revenues, although at a slower pace than we have experienced historically, in particular after the outsized growth in our advertising revenues during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we face increasing competition for user engagement and advertisers, which may affect our revenues.
•Users continue to access our products and services using diverse devices and modalities, which allows for new advertising formats that may benefit our revenues but adversely affect our margins. 
Our users are accessing the Internet via diverse devices and modalities, such as smartphones, wearables, and smart home devices, and want to be able to be connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. We are focused on expanding our products and services to stay in front of these trends in order to maintain and grow our business.
We benefit from advertising revenues generated from different channels, including mobile, and newer advertising formats. The margins from these channels and newer products have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Additionally, as the market for a particular device type or modality matures, our advertising revenues may be affected. For example, growth in the global smartphone market has slowed due to various factors, including increased market saturation in developed countries, which can affect our mobile advertising revenues.
We expect TAC paid to our distribution partners and Google Network partners to increase as our revenues grow and TAC as a percentage of our advertising revenues ("TAC rate") to be affected by changes in device mix; geographic mix; partner mix; partner agreement terms; the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points; product mix; the relative revenue growth rates of advertising revenues from different channels; and revenue share terms.
We expect these trends to continue to affect our revenues and put pressure on our margins.
•As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings, which may affect our monetization.
As interactions between users and advertisers change, and as online user behavior evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings to serve these changing needs, which may affect our monetization. For example, revenues from ads on YouTube and Google Play monetize at a lower rate than our traditional search ads. We also may develop new products incorporating AI innovations that could affect our monetization trends. Additionally, when developing new products and services we generally focus first on user experience before prioritizing monetization.
•As users in developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue to increase, and may require continued investments. In addition, movements in foreign exchange rates affect such revenues. 
The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, such as India. We continue to invest heavily and develop localized versions of our products and advertising programs relevant to our users in these markets. This has led to a trend of increased 

Alphabet Inc.

revenues from emerging markets. We expect that our results will continue to be affected by our performance in these markets, particularly as low-cost mobile devices become more available. This trend could affect our revenues as developing markets initially monetize at a lower rate than more mature markets.
International revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a foreign exchange risk management program designed to reduce our exposure to these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect on our revenues and earnings.
•The revenues that we derive from non-advertising products and services are increasing and may adversely affect our margins.
Non-advertising revenues have grown over time, and we expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our products and services. The margins on these revenues vary significantly and are generally lower than the margins on our advertising revenues. In particular margins on our hardware products adversely affect our consolidated margins due to pressures on pricing and higher cost of sales.
•As we continue to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in operating and capital expenditures.
We continue to make significant research and development investments in areas of strategic focus as we seek to develop new, innovative offerings and improve our existing offerings across our businesses. We also expect to continue to invest in our technical infrastructure, including servers, network equipment, and data centers, to support the growth of our business and our long-term initiatives, in particular in support of AI. In addition acquisitions and strategic investments contribute to the breadth and depth of our offerings, expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas, and build strong partnerships around strategic initiatives. For example, in September 2022 we closed the acquisition of Mandiant to help expand our offerings in dynamic cyber defense and response. 
•We face continuing changes in regulatory conditions, laws, and public policies, which could affect our business practices and financial results.
Changes in social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics and related legal matters have resulted in fines and caused us to change our business practices. As these global trends continue, our cost of doing business may increase, our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products or services may be limited, and we may need to change our business practices. Examples include the antitrust complaints filed by the U.S. Department of Justice and a number of state Attorneys General; pending litigation in the U.S., EU, and around the world that could diminish or eliminate safe harbor protection for websites and online platforms; and the Digital Markets Act and Digital Services Act in Europe and various legislative proposals in the U.S. focused on large technology platforms. For additional information see Item 1A Risk Factors and Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8.
•Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them.
Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue hiring talented employees around the globe and to provide competitive compensation programs. For additional information see Culture and Workforce in Part I, Item 1 “Business.”
Revenues and Monetization Metrics
We generate revenues by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide enterprise customers of all sizes with infrastructure and platform services as well as communication and collaboration tools; sales of other products and services, such as apps and in-app purchases, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products. For details on how we recognize revenue, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
In addition to the long-term trends and their financial effect on our business noted above, fluctuations in our revenues have been and may continue to be affected by a combination of factors, including:
•changes in foreign currency exchange rates;
•changes in pricing, such as those resulting from changes in fee structures, discounts, and customer incentives;
•general economic conditions and various external dynamics, including geopolitical events, regulations, and other measures and their effect on advertiser, consumer, and enterprise spending; 
•new product and service launches; and

Alphabet Inc.

•seasonality.
Additionally, fluctuations in our revenues generated from advertising ("Google advertising"), revenues from other sources ("Google other revenues"), Google Cloud, and Other Bets revenues have been and may continue to be affected by other factors unique to each set of revenues, as described below.
Google Services
Google Services revenues consist of Google advertising as well as Google other revenues.
Google Advertising
Google advertising revenues are comprised of the following: 
•Google Search & other, which includes revenues generated on Google search properties (including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.), and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play;
•YouTube ads, which includes revenues generated on YouTube properties; and
•Google Network, which includes revenues generated on Google Network properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.
We use certain metrics to track how well traffic across various properties is monetized as it relates to our advertising revenues: paid clicks and cost-per-click pertain to traffic on Google Search & other properties, while impressions and cost-per-impression pertain to traffic on our Google Network properties.
Paid clicks represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users on Google search properties and other Google owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play. Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.
Impressions include impressions displayed to users on Google Network properties participating primarily in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager. Cost-per-impression is defined as impression-based and click-based revenues divided by our total number of impressions, and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each impression displayed to users.
As our business evolves, we periodically review, refine, and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks and the number of impressions, and for identifying the revenues generated by the corresponding click and impression activity.
Fluctuations in our advertising revenues, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google Search & other properties and the change in impressions and cost-per-impression on Google Network properties and the correlation between these items have been and may continue to be affected by additional factors, such as:
•advertiser competition for keywords;
•changes in advertising quality, formats, delivery or policy;
•changes in device mix; 
•seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends, such as traditional retail seasonality; and
•traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various verticals and channels.
Google Other
Google other revenues are comprised of the following:
•Google Play, which includes sales of apps and in-app purchases;
•hardware, which includes sales of Fitbit wearable devices, Google Nest home products, and Pixel devices;
•YouTube non-advertising, which includes subscription revenues from services such as YouTube Premium and YouTube TV; and
•other products and services.

Alphabet Inc.

Fluctuations in our Google other revenues have been and may continue to be affected by additional factors, such as changes in customer usage and demand, number of subscribers, and fluctuations in the timing of product launches.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud revenues are comprised of the following:
•Google Cloud Platform, which includes fees for infrastructure, platform, and other services;
•Google Workspace, which includes fees for cloud-based communication and collaboration tools for enterprises, such as Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar and Meet; and 
•other enterprise services.
Fluctuations in our Google Cloud revenues have been and may continue to be affected by additional factors, such as customer usage.
Other Bets
Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of health technology and internet services.
Costs and Expenses 
Our cost structure has two components: cost of revenues and operating expenses. Our operating expenses include costs related to R&D, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions. Certain of our costs and expenses, including those associated with the operation of our technical infrastructure as well as components of our operating expenses, are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate to changes in revenue. 
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues is comprised of TAC and other costs of revenues.
•TAC includes: 
◦Amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
◦Amounts paid to Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed on their properties.
•Other cost of revenues includes:
◦Content acquisition costs, which are payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee).
◦Expenses associated with our data centers (including bandwidth, compensation expenses, depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs) as well as other operations costs (such as content review as well as customer and product support costs).
◦Inventory and other costs related to the hardware we sell.
TAC as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network properties are significantly higher than TAC as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Search & other properties, because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network partners.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses are generally incurred during our normal course of business, which we categorize as either R&D, sales and marketing, or general and administrative.
The main components of our R&D expenses are:
•compensation expenses for engineering and technical employees responsible for R&D related to our existing and new products and services; 
•depreciation; and
•third-party services fees primarily relating to consulting and outsourced services in support of our engineering and product development efforts.

Alphabet Inc.

The main components of our sales and marketing expenses are:
•compensation expenses for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions; and
•spending relating to our advertising and promotional activities in support of our products and services.
The main components of our general and administrative expenses are:
•compensation expenses for employees in finance, human resources, information technology, legal, and other administrative support functions; 
•expenses relating to legal matters, including fines and settlements; and 
•third-party services fees, including audit, consulting, outside legal, and other outsourced administrative services.
Other Income (Expense), Net 
Other income (expense), net primarily consists of interest income (expense), the effect of foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net gains (losses) and impairment on our marketable and non-marketable securities, performance fees, and income (loss) and impairment from our equity method investments. 
For additional details, including how we account for our investments and factors that can drive fluctuations in the value of our investments, see Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”.
Provision for Income Taxes
Provision for income taxes represents the estimated amount of federal, state, and foreign income taxes incurred in the U.S. and the many jurisdictions in which we operate. The provision includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties.
For additional details, including a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to our effective tax rate, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Executive Overview
The following table summarizes our consolidated financial results (in millions, except for per share information and percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31, | | | | 
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | $ Change | | % Change
Consolidated revenues | $ | 257,637 | | | $ | 282,836 | | | $ | 25,199 | 10 | %
Change in consolidated constant currency revenues(1) | | | | | | | 14 | %
Cost of revenues | $ | 110,939 | | | $ | 126,203 | | | $ | 15,264 | 14 | %
Operating expenses | $ | 67,984 | | | $ | 81,791 | | | $ | 13,807 | 20 | %
Operating income | $ | 78,714 | | | $ | 74,842 | | | $ | (3,872) | (5) | %
Operating margin | 31 | % | | 26 | % | | | | (5) | % 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 12,020 | | | $ | (3,514) | | | $ | (15,534) | (129) | %
Net income | $ | 76,033 | | | $ | 59,972 | | | $ | (16,061) | (21) | %
Diluted EPS | $ | 5.61 | | | $ | 4.56 | | | $ | (1.05) | (19) | %

(1)    See "Use of Non-GAAP Constant Currency Measures" below for details relating to our use of constant currency information. 
•Revenues were $282.8 billion, an increase of 10% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in Google Services revenues of $16.0 billion, or 7%, and an increase in Google Cloud revenues of $7.1 billion, or 37%. 
•Total constant currency revenues, which exclude the effect of hedging, increased 14% year over year.

Alphabet Inc.

•Cost of revenues was $126.2 billion, an increase of 14% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in other costs of revenues.
•Operating expenses were $81.8 billion, an increase of 20% year over year, primarily driven by increases in compensation expenses due to headcount growth, third-party service fees, and advertising and promotional expenses.
Other information:
•On September 12, 2022, we closed the acquisition of Mandiant for a total purchase price of $6.1 billion and added more than 2,600 employees. Mandiant's financial results are reported within Google Cloud as of the acquisition date. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
•On July 15, 2022, the company executed a 20-for-one stock split with a record date of July 1, 2022, effected in the form of a one-time special stock dividend on each share of the company's Class A, Class B, and Class C stock. All prior period references made to share or per share amounts throughout this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations prior to the effective date have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the effects of the Stock Split. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
•Beginning in the first quarter of 2022, we suspended the vast majority of our commercial activities in Russia and effectively ceased business activities of our Russian entity. The ongoing effect of these direct actions on our financial results was not material. The broader economic effects resulting from the war in Ukraine on our future financial results may be unpredictable.
•Repurchases of Class A and Class C shares were $59.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
•Operating cash flow was $91.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022.
•Capital expenditures, which primarily reflected investments in technical infrastructure, were $31.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022.
•As of December 31, 2022, we had 190,234 employees.
Additionally, looking ahead to fiscal year 2023:
•In January 2023, we announced a reduction of our workforce of approximately 12,000 roles. We expect to incur employee severance and related charges of $1.9 billion to $2.3 billion, the majority of which will be recognized in the first quarter of 2023.
In addition, we are taking actions to optimize our global office space. As a result we expect to incur exit costs relating to office space reductions of approximately $0.5 billion in the first quarter of 2023. We may incur additional charges in the future as we further evaluate our real estate needs.
•In January 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment, resulting in a change in the estimated useful life of our servers and certain network equipment to six years, which we expect to result in a reduction of depreciation of approximately $3.4 billion for the full fiscal year 2023 for assets in service as of December 31, 2022, recorded primarily in cost of revenues and R&D expenses. 
•As AI is critical to delivering our mission of bringing our breakthrough innovations into the real world, beginning in January 2023, we will update our segment reporting relating to certain of Alphabet's AI activities. DeepMind, previously reported within Other Bets, will be reported as part of Alphabet's corporate costs, reflecting its increasing collaboration with Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets. Prior periods will be recast to conform to the revised presentation. See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information relating to our segments.

Alphabet Inc.

Financial Results
Revenues
The following table presents revenues by type (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Google Search & other | $ | 148,951 | | | $ | 162,450
YouTube ads | 28,845 | | | 29,243 | 
Google Network | 31,701 | | | 32,780 | 
Google advertising | 209,497 | | | 224,473 | 
Google other | 28,032 | | | 29,055 | 
Google Services total | 237,529 | | | 253,528 | 
Google Cloud | 19,206 | | | 26,280 | 
Other Bets | 753 | | | 1,068 | 
Hedging gains (losses) | 149 | | | 1,960 | 
Total revenues | $ | 257,637 | | | $ | 282,836

Google Services
Google advertising revenues
Google Search & other
Google Search & other revenues increased $13.5 billion from 2021 to 2022. The growth was driven by interrelated factors including increases in search queries resulting from growth in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices; growth in advertiser spending; and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery. Growth was adversely affected by the unfavorable effect of foreign currency exchange rates.
YouTube ads
YouTube ads revenues increased $398 million from 2021 to 2022. The growth was driven by our brand advertising products followed by direct response products, both of which benefited from increased spending by our advertisers as well as improvements to ad formats and delivery. Growth was adversely affected by the unfavorable effect of foreign currency exchange rates.
Google Network
Google Network revenues increased $1.1 billion from 2021 to 2022. The growth was primarily driven by strength in AdSense and AdMob. Growth was adversely affected by the unfavorable effect of foreign currency exchange rates.
Monetization Metrics
Paid clicks and cost-per-click
The following table presents changes in paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage) from 2021 to 2022:

Paid clicks change | 10 | %
Cost-per-click change | (1) | %

Paid clicks increased from 2021 to 2022 driven by a number of interrelated factors, including an increase in search queries resulting from growth in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices; growth in advertiser spending; and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery.
Cost-per-click decreased from 2021 to 2022 driven by a number of interrelated factors including changes in device mix, geographic mix, advertiser spending, ongoing product changes, and property mix, as well as the unfavorable effect of foreign currency exchange rates.

Alphabet Inc.

Impressions and cost-per-impression
The following table presents changes in impressions and cost-per-impression (expressed as a percentage) from 2021 to 2022:

Impressions change | 3 | %
Cost-per-impression change | 1 | %

Impressions increased from 2021 to 2022 primarily driven by Google Ad Manager and AdMob. The increase in cost-per-impression from 2021 to 2022 was driven by a number of interrelated factors including ongoing product and policy changes, improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, changes in device mix, geographic mix, product mix, and property mix, partially offset by the unfavorable effect of foreign currency exchange rates.
Google other revenues
Google other revenues increased $1.0 billion from 2021 to 2022 primarily driven by growth in YouTube non-advertising and hardware revenues, partially offset by a decrease in Google Play revenues. The growth in YouTube non-advertising was largely due to an increase in paid subscribers. The growth in hardware was primarily driven by increased sales of Pixel devices. The decrease in Google Play revenues was primarily driven by the fee structure changes we announced in 2021 as well as a decrease in buyer spending. Additionally, the overall increase in Google other revenues was adversely affected by the unfavorable effect of foreign currency exchange rates.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud revenues increased $7.1 billion from 2021 to 2022. The growth was primarily driven by Google Cloud Platform followed by Google Workspace offerings. Google Cloud's infrastructure and platform services were the largest drivers of growth in Google Cloud Platform.
Revenues by Geography
The following table presents revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the addresses of our customers:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
United States | 46 | % | | 48 | %
EMEA | 31 | % | | 29 | %
APAC | 18 | % | | 16 | %
Other Americas | 5 | % | | 6 | %
Hedging gains (losses) | 0 | % | | 1 | %

For further details on revenues by geography, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Use of Non-GAAP Constant Currency Information
International revenues, which represent a significant portion of our revenues, are generally transacted in multiple currencies and therefore are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
The effect of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons. We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues ("constant currency revenues") and non-GAAP percentage change in constant currency revenues ("percentage change in constant currency revenues") for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results helps improve the ability to understand our performance, because it excludes the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.
Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements ("FX Effect") as well as hedging activities, which are recognized at the consolidated level. We use constant currency revenues to determine the constant currency revenue percentage change on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior year comparable period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging effects realized in the current period.

Alphabet Inc.

Constant currency revenue percentage change is calculated by determining the change in current period revenues over prior year comparable period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior year comparable period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues of both periods.
These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.
The following table presents the foreign exchange effect on international revenues and total revenues (in millions, except percentages):

 | | | | | Year Ended December 31, 2022
 | | | | | | | | % Change from Prior Period
 | Year Ended December 31, | | Less FX Effect | | Constant Currency Revenues | | As Reported | Less Hedging Effect | | Less FX Effect | | Constant Currency Revenues
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | | | | 
United States | $ | 117,854 | | | $ | 134,814 | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 134,814 | | | 14 | % | | | 0 | % | | 14 | %
EMEA | 79,107 | | | 82,062 | | | (8,979) | | 91,041 | | | 4 | % | | | | (11) | % | 15 | %
APAC | 46,123 | | | 47,024 | | | (3,915) | | 50,939 | | | 2 | % | | | | (8) | % | 10 | %
Other Americas | 14,404 | | | 16,976 | | | (430) | | 17,406 | | | 18 | % | | | | (3) | % | 21 | %
Revenues, excluding hedging effect | 257,488 | | | 280,876 | | | (13,324) | | 294,200 | | | 9 | % | | | | (5) | % | 14 | %
Hedging gains (losses) | 149 | | | 1,960 | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Total revenues(1) | $ | 257,637 | | | $ | 282,836 | | | | $ | 294,200 | | | 10 | % | | 1 | % | (5) | % | | 14 | % 

(1)Total constant currency revenues of $294.2 billion for 2022 increased $36.7 billion compared to $257.5 billion in revenues, excluding hedging effect for 2021.
EMEA revenue growth was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Euro and the British pound.
APAC revenue growth was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Japanese yen and the Australian dollar.
Other Americas growth was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Argentine peso.
Costs and Expenses
Cost of Revenues
The following table presents cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
TAC | $ | 45,566 | | | $ | 48,955 
Other cost of revenues | 65,373 | | | 77,248 | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 110,939 | | | $ | 126,203
Total cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues | 43 | % | | 45 | %

Cost of revenues increased $15.3 billion from 2021 to 2022. The increase was due to an increase in other cost of revenues and TAC of $11.9 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.
The increase in TAC from 2021 to 2022 was due to an increase in TAC paid to distribution partners and to Google Network partners, primarily driven by growth in revenues subject to TAC. The TAC rate was 22% in both 2021 and 2022. The TAC rate on Google Search & other revenues and the TAC rate on Google Network revenues were both substantially consistent from 2021 to 2022.
The increase in other cost of revenues from 2021 to 2022 was primarily due to increases in data center costs and other operations costs as well as hardware costs.

Alphabet Inc.

Research and Development
The following table presents R&D expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Research and development expenses | $ | 31,562 | | | $ | 39,500
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues | 12 | % | | 14 | %

R&D expenses increased $7.9 billion from 2021 to 2022 primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses of $5.4 billion, largely resulting from a 21% increase in average headcount, and an increase in third-party service fees of $704 million.
Sales and Marketing
The following table presents sales and marketing expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Sales and marketing expenses | $ | 22,912 | | | $ | 26,567
Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues | 9 | % | | 9 | %

Sales and marketing expenses increased $3.7 billion from 2021 to 2022, primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses of $1.8 billion, largely resulting from a 19% increase in average headcount, and an increase in advertising and promotional activities of $1.3 billion.
General and Administrative
The following table presents general and administrative expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
General and administrative expenses | $ | 13,510 | | | $ | 15,724
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues | 5 | % | | 6 | %

General and administrative expenses increased $2.2 billion from 2021 to 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses of $1.1 billion, largely resulting from a 21% increase in average headcount, and an increase in third-party services fees of $815 million. In addition, there was a $551 million increase to the allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, as the prior year comparable period reflected a decline in the allowance.
Segment Profitability
The following table presents segment operating income (loss) (in millions).

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Operating income (loss): | | | 
Google Services | $ | 91,855 | | | $ | 86,572
Google Cloud | (3,099) | | | (2,968) | 
Other Bets | (5,281) | | | (6,083) | 
Corporate costs, unallocated(1) | (4,761) | | | (2,679) | 
Total income from operations | $ | 78,714 | | | $ | 74,842

(1)Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such as finance and legal, including certain fines and settlements, as well as costs associated with certain shared R&D activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related to revenue are included in corporate costs and totaled $149 million and $2.0 billion in 2021 and 2022, respectively.
Google Services
Google Services operating income decreased $5.3 billion from 2021 to 2022. The decrease in operating income was primarily driven by increases in compensation expenses and TAC, partially offset by growth in revenues.

Alphabet Inc.

Google Cloud
Google Cloud operating loss decreased $131 million from 2021 to 2022. The decrease in operating loss was primarily driven by growth in revenues, partially offset by an increase in compensation expenses.
Other Bets
Other Bets operating loss increased $802 million from 2021 to 2022. The increase in operating loss was primarily driven by increases in compensation expenses, partially offset by growth in revenues.
Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table presents other income (expense), net, (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Other income (expense), net | $ | 12,020 | | $ | (3,514)

Other income (expense), net, decreased $15.5 billion from 2021 to 2022 primarily due to changes in gains and losses on equity securities and performance fees. In 2022, $3.2 billion of net unrealized losses were recognized on marketable equity securities and $1.5 billion of net realized losses were recognized on debt securities. These losses were partially offset by interest income of $2.2 billion and reversals of previously accrued performance fees related to certain investments of $798 million. In 2021, $9.8 billion of net unrealized gains were recognized on non-marketable equity securities and $1.5 billion of interest income was recognized, partially offset by $1.9 billion of accrued performance fees related to certain investments.
See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
Provision for Income Taxes
The following table presents provision for income taxes (in millions, except for effective tax rate):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Income before provision for income taxes | $ | 90,734 | | | $ | 71,328
Provision for income taxes | $ | 14,701 | | | $ | 11,356
Effective tax rate | 16.2 | % | | 15.9 | %

The effective tax rate decreased from 2021 to 2022, primarily driven by the effects of capitalization and amortization of R&D expenses in 2022 as required by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act generating an increase in the U.S. federal Foreign Derived Intangible Income tax deduction. The decrease was partially offset by a decrease in pre-tax earnings, including in countries that have lower statutory rates and a decrease in the stock-based compensation related tax benefit. See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
Financial Condition
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
As of December 31, 2022, we had $113.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, and marketable equity securities.
Sources, Uses of Cash, and Related Trends
Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from operations. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long-term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace, and form of capital return to stockholders.

Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents our cash flows (in millions):
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 91,652 | | $ | 91,495 
Net cash used in investing activities | $ | (35,523) | | $ | (20,298)
Net cash used in financing activities | $ | (61,362) | | $ | (69,757)

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Our largest source of cash provided by operations are advertising revenues generated by Google Search & other properties, Google Network properties, and YouTube properties. Additionally, we generate cash through sales of apps and in-app purchases, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings and subscription-based products.
Our primary uses of cash from operating activities include payments to distribution and Google Network partners, to employees for compensation, and to content providers. Other uses of cash from operating activities include payments to suppliers for hardware, to tax authorities for income taxes, and other general corporate expenditures.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased from 2021 to 2022 primarily due to the net effect of an increase in cash received from revenues, offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses and an increase in tax payments driven by the effects of capitalization and amortization of R&D expenses beginning in 2022 as required by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Cash Used in Investing Activities
Cash provided by investing activities consists primarily of maturities and sales of investments in marketable and non-marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of purchases of marketable and non-marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment, and payments for acquisitions.
Net cash used in investing activities decreased from 2021 to 2022 as a result of a decrease in net purchases of and maturities and sales of marketable securities, partially offset by an increase in purchases of property and equipment.
Cash Used in Financing Activities
Cash provided by financing activities consists primarily of proceeds from issuance of debt and proceeds from the sale of interest in consolidated entities. Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of repurchases of stock, net payments related to stock-based award activities, and repayments of debt.
Net cash used in financing activities increased from 2021 to 2022 primarily due to an increase in repurchases of stock.
Liquidity and Material Cash Requirements
We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash flows from operations and financing activities to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.
Capital Expenditures and Leases
We make investments in land and buildings for data centers and offices and information technology assets through purchases of property and equipment and lease arrangements to provide capacity for the growth of our services and products. 
Capital Expenditures
Our capital investments in property and equipment consist primarily of the following major categories:
•technical infrastructure, which consists of our investments in servers and network equipment for computing, storage, and networking requirements for ongoing business activities, including AI, (collectively referred to as our information technology assets) and data center land and building construction; and
•office facilities, ground-up development projects, and building improvements (also referred to as "fit-outs").
Construction in progress consists primarily of technical infrastructure and office facilities which have not yet been placed in service. The time frame from date of purchase to placement in service of these assets may extend from months to years. For example, our data center construction projects are generally multi-year projects with multiple 

Alphabet Inc.

phases, where we acquire qualified land and buildings, construct buildings, and secure and install information technology assets. 
During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, we spent $24.6 billion and $31.5 billion on capital expenditures, respectively. Depreciation of our property and equipment commences when the deployment of such assets are completed and are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, our depreciation and impairment expenses on property and equipment were $11.6 billion and $15.3 billion, respectively.
Leases
For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, we recognized total operating lease assets of $3.0 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, the amount of total future lease payments under operating leases, which had a weighted average remaining lease term of 8 years, was $17.4 billion, of which $3.0 billion is short-term. As of December 31, 2022, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future short-term and long-term lease payments of $630 million and $3.1 billion that are not yet recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between 2023 and 2026 with non-cancelable lease terms of 1 to 25 years.
For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, our operating lease expenses (including variable lease costs) were $3.4 billion and $3.7 billion, respectively. Finance lease costs were not material for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on leases.
Financing
We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2022, we had no commercial paper outstanding. 
As of December 31, 2022, we had $10.0 billion of revolving credit facilities, $4.0 billion expiring in April 2023 and $6.0 billion expiring in April 2026. The interest rates for all credit facilities are determined based on a formula using certain market rates, as well as our progress toward the achievement of certain sustainability goals. No amounts have been borrowed under the credit facilities.
As of December 31, 2022, we had senior unsecured notes outstanding with a total carrying value of $12.9 billion with short-term and long-term future interest payments of $231 million and $3.8 billion, respectively. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our debt.
We primarily utilize contract manufacturers for the assembly of our servers used in our technical infrastructure and hardware products we sell. We have agreements where we may purchase components directly from suppliers and then supply these components to contract manufacturers for use in the assembly of the servers and hardware products. Certain of these arrangements result in a portion of the cash received from and paid to the contract manufacturers to be presented as financing activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on From 10-K.
Share Repurchase Program
In April 2022, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $70.0 billion of its Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2022, $28.1 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases. In accordance with the authorization of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during 2022 we repurchased and subsequently retired 530 million shares for $59.3 billion. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired, 61 million shares were Class A stock for $6.7 billion and 469 million shares were Class C stock for $52.6 billion. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
European Commission Fines
In 2017, 2018 and 2019, the EC announced decisions that certain actions taken by Google infringed European competition law and imposed fines of €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017), €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018), and €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019), respectively. On September 14, 2022, the General Court reduced the 2018 fine from €4.3 billion to €4.1 billion. We subsequently filed an appeal to the European Court of Justice. In 2018 we recognized a charge of $5.1 billion for the fine, which we reduced by $217 million in 2022. 
While each EC decision is under appeal, we included the fines in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines. For 

Alphabet Inc.

further details, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Taxes
As of December 31, 2022, we had short-term and long-term income taxes payable of $1.6 billion and $4.2 billion related to a one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). As permitted by the Tax Act, we will pay the transition tax in annual interest-free installments through 2025. We also have taxes payable of $5.1 billion primarily related to uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2022. 
Purchase Commitments 
As of December 31, 2022, we had material non-cancelable contractual obligations of $32.0 billion, of which $17.3 billion was short-term. These amounts represent the non-cancelable portion of agreements or the minimum cancellation fee and are primarily related to commitments to purchase licenses, technical infrastructure, inventory, and network capacity. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of December 31, 2022. 
In addition we regularly enter into multi-year, non-cancellable agreements to purchase renewable energy and energy attributes, such as renewable energy certificates. These agreements do not include a minimum dollar commitment. The amounts to be paid under these agreements are based on the actual volumes to be generated and are not readily determinable. 
Critical Accounting Estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions. Our critical accounting estimates are those estimates that involve a significant level of uncertainty at the time the estimate was made, and changes in them have had or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We have reviewed our critical accounting estimates with the Audit and Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors.
See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of significant accounting policies and the effect on our financial statements.
Fair Value Measurements of Non-Marketable Equity Securities
We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, consisting primarily of our non-marketable equity securities. These investments are accounted for under the measurement alternative method ("the measurement alternative") and are measured at cost, less impairment, subject to upward and downward adjustments resulting from observable price changes for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. These adjustments require quantitative assessments of the fair value of our securities, which may require the use of unobservable inputs. Pricing adjustments are determined by using various valuation methodologies and involve the use of estimates using the best information available, which may include cash flow projections or other available market data.
Non-marketable equity securities are also evaluated for impairment, based on qualitative factors including the companies' financial and liquidity position and access to capital resources, among others. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare quantitative measurements of the fair value of our equity investments using a market approach or an income approach, which requires judgment and the use of unobservable inputs, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data of private and public companies, among others. When the quantitative remeasurements of fair value indicate an impairment exists, we write down the investment to its current fair value.
We also have compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized returns from certain investments, i.e. performance fees. We record compensation expense based on the estimated payouts on an ongoing basis, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized and compensation is paid and may require the use of unobservable inputs.
Property and Equipment
We assess the reasonableness of the useful lives of our property and equipment periodically as well as when other changes occur, such as when there are changes to ongoing business operations, changes in the planned use and utilization of assets, or technological advancements, that could indicate a change in the period over which we expect to benefit from the assets. 

Alphabet Inc.

Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes.
Recording an uncertain tax position involves various qualitative considerations, including evaluation of comparable and resolved tax exposures, applicability of tax laws, and likelihood of settlement. We evaluate uncertain tax positions periodically, considering changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made.
The provision for income taxes includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Loss Contingencies
We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury consumer protection, and other matters. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. 
Change in Accounting Estimate
In January 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment, resulting in a change in the estimated useful life of our servers and certain network equipment to six years, which we expect to result in a reduction of depreciation of approximately $3.4 billion for the full fiscal year 2023 for assets in service as of December 31, 2022, recorded primarily in cost of revenues and R&D expenses. See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information relating to the useful lives of our servers and network equipment.
ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity investment risks. 
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We transact business globally in multiple currencies. International revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro, and Japanese yen. For the purpose of analyzing foreign currency exchange risk, we considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% could be experienced.
We use foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary. These forward and option contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on these assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which are offset by the gains and losses on the forward and option contracts.

Alphabet Inc.

If an adverse 10% foreign currency exchange rate change was applied to total monetary assets, liabilities, and commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies at the balance sheet date, it would have resulted in an adverse effect on income before income taxes of approximately $285 million and $136 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, respectively, after consideration of the effect of foreign exchange contracts in place for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022.
We use foreign currency forward and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) to protect forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency forward and option contacts reduce the foreign currency losses related to our earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign currency gains related to our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. We reflect the gains or losses of foreign currency spot rate changes as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and subsequently reclassify them into revenues to offset the hedged exposures as they occur. 
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10% as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, the amount recorded in AOCI related to our cash flow hedges before tax effect would have been approximately $1.3 billion lower for both December 31, 2021 and 2022. The change in the value recorded in AOCI would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in forecasted hedged revenues when recognized.
We use foreign exchange forward contracts designated as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to investment in foreign subsidiaries. These forward contracts serve to offset the foreign currency translation risk from our foreign operations.
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10%, the amount recorded in cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) within AOCI related to our net investment hedges before tax effect would have been approximately $975 million and $903 million lower as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, respectively. The change in value recorded in CTA would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency translation gain or loss from our investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Interest Rate Risk
Our Corporate Treasury investment strategy is to achieve a return that will allow us to preserve capital and maintain liquidity. We invest primarily in debt securities, including government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, money market and other funds, time deposits, and interest rate derivatives. By policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Unrealized gains or losses on our marketable debt securities are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations as compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. For certain fixed and variable rate debt securities, we have elected the fair value option for which changes in fair value are recorded in other income (expense), net. We measure securities for which we have not elected the fair value option at fair value with gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold, less any expected credit losses. 
We use value-at-risk (VaR) analysis to determine the potential effect of fluctuations in interest rates on the value of our marketable debt security portfolio. The VaR is the expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due to adverse movements in interest rates. We use a variance/covariance VaR model with 95% confidence interval. The estimated one-day loss in fair value of marketable debt securities as of December 31, 2021 and 2022 are shown below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, | | 12-Month Average As of December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | 2021 | | 2022
Risk category - interest rate | $ | 139 | | $ | 256 | | $ | 148 | $ | 198

Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2021 and 2022 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes in interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. VaR analysis is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation.
Equity Investment Risk
Our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings.

Alphabet Inc.

Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks or funds and our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages.
We record marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method at fair value based on readily determinable market values, of which publicly traded stocks and mutual funds are subject to market price volatility, and represent $7.8 billion and $5.2 billion of our investments as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, respectively. A hypothetical adverse price change of 10% on our December 31, 2022 balance would decrease the fair value of marketable equity securities by $516 million. From time to time, we may enter into derivatives to hedge the market price risk on certain of our marketable equity securities.
Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment (referred to as the measurement alternative). The fair value measured at the time of the observable transaction is not necessarily an indication of the current fair value as of the balance sheet date. These investments, especially those that are in the early stages, are inherently risky because the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early phases and may never materialize, and they may experience a decline in financial condition, which could result in a loss of a substantial part of our investment in these companies. Valuations of our equity investments in private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data and observable transactions at lower valuations could result in significant losses. In addition, global economic conditions could result in additional volatility. The success of our investment in any private company is also typically dependent on the likelihood of our ability to realize appreciation in the value of investments through liquidity events such as public offerings, acquisitions, private sales or other market events. Changes in the valuation of non-marketable equity securities may not directly correlate with changes in valuation of marketable equity securities. As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities, which were accounted for under the measurement alternative, was $27.6 billion and $28.5 billion, respectively. 
The carrying values of our equity method investments, which totaled approximately $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, generally do not fluctuate based on market price changes. However, these investments could be impaired if the carrying value exceeds the fair value and is not expected to recover.
For further information about our equity investments, see Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Alphabet Inc.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 | Page
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42) | 44 
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15 (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2021 and 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated February 2, 2023 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosure to which it relates. 

Alphabet Inc.

Loss Contingencies 
Description of the Matter | The Company is regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by its users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using their platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. As described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements “Commitments and contingencies” such claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders could result in adverse consequences.Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood, and the estimated amount, of a loss related to such matters. Auditing management’s accounting for and disclosure of loss contingencies from these matters involved challenging and subjective auditor judgment in assessing the Company’s evaluation of the probability of a loss, and the estimated amount or range of loss.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit | We tested relevant controls over the identified risks associated with management’s accounting for and disclosure of these matters. This included controls over management’s assessment of the probability of incurrence of a loss and whether the loss or range of loss was reasonably estimable and the development of related disclosures.Our audit procedures included gaining an understanding of previous rulings issued by regulators and the status of ongoing lawsuits, reviewing letters addressing the matters from internal and external legal counsel, meeting with internal legal counsel to discuss the allegations, and obtaining a representation letter from management on these matters. We also evaluated the Company’s disclosures in relation to these matters. 


/s/ Ernst & Young LLP 
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1999.
San Jose, California 
February 2, 2023 


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Alphabet Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Alphabet Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the 2022 consolidated financial statements of the Company and our report dated February 2, 2023 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 2, 2023 


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions, except par value per share amounts)
 | As of December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Assets | | | 
Current assets: | | | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 20,945 | | | $ | 21,879 
Marketable securities | 118,704 | | | 91,883 | 
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | 139,649 | | | 113,762 | 
Accounts receivable, net | 39,304 | | | 40,258 | 
Inventory | 1,170 | | | 2,670 | 
Other current assets | 8,020 | | | 8,105 | 
Total current assets | 188,143 | | | 164,795 | 
Non-marketable securities | 29,549 | | | 30,492 | 
Deferred income taxes | 1,284 | | | 5,261 | 
Property and equipment, net | 97,599 | | | 112,668 | 
Operating lease assets | 12,959 | | | 14,381 | 
Intangible assets, net | 1,417 | | | 2,084 | 
Goodwill | 22,956 | | | 28,960 | 
Other non-current assets | 5,361 | | | 6,623 | 
Total assets | $ | 359,268 | | | $ | 365,264
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity | | | 
Current liabilities: | | | 
Accounts payable | $ | 6,037 | | | $ | 5,128 
Accrued compensation and benefits | 13,889 | | | 14,028 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 32,044 | | | 37,866 | 
Accrued revenue share | 8,996 | | | 8,370 | 
Deferred revenue | 3,288 | | | 3,908 | 
Total current liabilities | 64,254 | | | 69,300 | 
Long-term debt | 14,817 | | | 14,701 | 
Deferred revenue, non-current | 535 | | | 599 | 
Income taxes payable, non-current | 9,176 | | | 9,258 | 
Deferred income taxes | 5,257 | | | 514 | 
Operating lease liabilities | 11,389 | | | 12,501 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 2,205 | | | 2,247 | 
Total liabilities | 107,633 | | | 109,120 | 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 10) | | | 
Stockholders’ equity: | | | 
Preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share, 100 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding | 0 | | | 0 | 
Class A, Class B, and Class C stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.001 par value per share: 300,000 shares authorized (Class A 180,000, Class B 60,000, Class C 60,000); 13,242 (Class A 6,015, Class B 893, Class C 6,334) and 12,849 (Class A 5,964, Class B 883, Class C 6,002) shares issued and outstanding | 61,774 | | | 68,184 | 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,623) | | | (7,603) | 
Retained earnings | 191,484 | | | 195,563 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 251,635 | | | 256,144 | 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity | $ | 359,268 | | | $ | 365,264

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Revenues | $ | 182,527 | | | $ | 257,637 | | $ | 282,836
Costs and expenses: | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 84,732 | | | 110,939 | | | 126,203
Research and development | 27,573 | | | 31,562 | | | 39,500 
Sales and marketing | 17,946 | | | 22,912 | | | 26,567 
General and administrative | 11,052 | | | 13,510 | | | 15,724 
Total costs and expenses | 141,303 | | | 178,923 | | | 207,994
Income from operations | 41,224 | | | 78,714 | | | 74,842 
Other income (expense), net | 6,858 | | | 12,020 | | | (3,514)
Income before income taxes | 48,082 | | | 90,734 | | | 71,328 
Provision for income taxes | 7,813 | | | 14,701 | | | 11,356 
Net income | $ | 40,269 | | | $ | 76,033 | | $ | 59,972 
Basic net income per share of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock | $ | 2.96 | | | $ | 5.69 | | $ | 4.59 
Diluted net income per share of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock | $ | 2.93 | | | $ | 5.61 | | $ | 4.56 

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(in millions)
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Net income | $ | 40,269 | | | $ | 76,033 | | $ | 59,972
Other comprehensive income (loss): | | | | | 
Change in foreign currency translation adjustment | 1,139 | | | (1,442) | | | (1,836)
Available-for-sale investments: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 1,313 | | | (1,312) | | | (4,720)
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (513) | | | (64) | | | 1,007 
Net change, net of income tax benefit (expense) of $(230), $394, and $1,056 | 800 | | | (1,376) | | | (3,713)
Cash flow hedges: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 42 | | | 716 | | | 1,275 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (116) | | | (154) | | | (1,706)
Net change, net of income tax benefit (expense) of $11, $(122), and $110 | (74) | | | 562 | | | (431) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 1,865 | | | (2,256) | | | (5,980)
Comprehensive income | $ | 42,134 | | | $ | 73,777 | | $ | 53,992

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(in millions)
 | Class A and Class BCommon Stock, Class C Capital Stock, andAdditional Paid-In Capital | AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss) | | RetainedEarnings | TotalStockholders’Equity
 | Shares | Amount | 
Balance as of December 31, 2019 | 13,767 | | $ | 50,552 | | $ | (1,232) | | $ | 152,122 | $ | 201,442
Stock issued | 167 | | 168 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 168 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 13,123 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 13,123 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | (5,969) | | 0 | | | 0 | | (5,969) 
Repurchases of stock | (430) | | (2,159) | | 0 | | | (28,990) | | (31,149)
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | 2,795 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 2,795 
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 40,269 | | 40,269 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | 1,865 | | | 0 | | 1,865 
Balance as of December 31, 2020 | 13,504 | | 58,510 | | 633 | | | 163,401 | | 222,544 
Stock issued | 145 | | 12 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 12 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 15,539 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 15,539 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | (10,273) | | 0 | | | 0 | | (10,273)
Repurchases of stock | (407) | | (2,324) | | 0 | | | (47,950) | | (50,274)
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | 310 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 310 
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 76,033 | | 76,033 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | (2,256) | | | 0 | | (2,256) 
Balance as of December 31, 2021 | 13,242 | | 61,774 | | (1,623) | | | 191,484 | | 251,635 
Stock issued | 137 | | 8 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 8 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 19,525 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 19,525 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | (9,754) | | 0 | | | (1) | | (9,755) 
Repurchases of stock | (530) | | (3,404) | | 0 | | | (55,892) | | (59,296)
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | 35 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 35 
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 59,972 | | 59,972 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | (5,980) | | | 0 | | (5,980) 
Balance as of December 31, 2022 | 12,849 | | $ | 68,184 | | $ | (7,603) | | $ | 195,563 | $ | 256,144

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions)
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Operating activities | | | | | 
Net income | $ | 40,269 | | | $ | 76,033 | | $ | 59,972
Adjustments: | | | | | 
Depreciation and impairment of property and equipment | 12,905 | | | 11,555 | | | 15,287 
Amortization and impairment of intangible assets | 792 | | | 886 | | | 641 
Stock-based compensation expense | 12,991 | | | 15,376 | | | 19,362 
Deferred income taxes | 1,390 | | | 1,808 | | | (8,081) 
(Gain) loss on debt and equity securities, net | (6,317) | | | (12,270) | | | 5,519 
Other | 1,267 | | | (213) | | | 1,030 
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions: | | | | | 
Accounts receivable, net | (6,524) | | | (9,095) | | | (2,317) 
Income taxes, net | 1,209 | | | (625) | | | 584 
Other assets | (1,330) | | | (1,846) | | | (5,046) 
Accounts payable | 694 | | | 283 | | | 707 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities | 5,504 | | | 7,304 | | | 3,915 
Accrued revenue share | 1,639 | | | 1,682 | | | (445) 
Deferred revenue | 635 | | | 774 | | | 367 
Net cash provided by operating activities | 65,124 | | | 91,652 | | | 91,495 
Investing activities | | | | | 
Purchases of property and equipment | (22,281) | | | (24,640) | | | (31,485)
Purchases of marketable securities | (136,576) | | | (135,196) | | | (78,874)
Maturities and sales of marketable securities | 132,906 | | | 128,294 | | | 97,822 
Purchases of non-marketable securities | (7,175) | | | (2,838) | | | (2,531) 
Maturities and sales of non-marketable securities | 1,023 | | | 934 | | | 150 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible assets | (738) | | | (2,618) | | | (6,969) 
Other investing activities | 68 | | | 541 | | | 1,589 
Net cash used in investing activities | (32,773) | | | (35,523) | | | (20,298)
Financing activities | | | | | 
Net payments related to stock-based award activities | (5,720) | | | (10,162) | | | (9,300) 
Repurchases of stock | (31,149) | | | (50,274) | | | (59,296)
Proceeds from issuance of debt, net of costs | 11,761 | | | 20,199 | | | 52,872 
Repayments of debt | (2,100) | | | (21,435) | | | (54,068)
Proceeds from sale of interest in consolidated entities, net | 2,800 | | | 310 | | | 35 
Net cash used in financing activities | (24,408) | | | (61,362) | | | (69,757)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents | 24 | | | (287) | | | (506) 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents | 7,967 | | | (5,520) | | | 934 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period | 18,498 | | | 26,465 | | | 20,945 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period | $ | 26,465 | | | $ | 20,945 | | $ | 21,879
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information | | | | | 
Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds | $ | 4,990 | | | $ | 13,412 | | $ | 18,892

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Nature of Operations
Google was incorporated in California in September 1998 and re-incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2003. In 2015, we implemented a holding company reorganization, and as a result, Alphabet Inc. ("Alphabet") became the successor issuer to Google.
We generate revenues by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide enterprise customers with infrastructure and platform services as well as communication and collaboration tools; sales of other products and services, such as apps and in-app purchases, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet include the accounts of Alphabet and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Use of Estimates
Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates due to uncertainties. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the allowance for credit losses; fair values of financial instruments, intangible assets, and goodwill; inventory; useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment; income taxes; and contingent liabilities, among others. We base our estimates on assumptions, both historical and forward looking, that are believed to be reasonable, and the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
In January 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment and adjusted the estimated useful life of our servers from four years to six years and the estimated useful life of certain network equipment from five years to six years. This change in accounting estimate is effective beginning in fiscal year 2023.Stock Split Effected in the Form of a Stock Dividend (“Stock Split”)
On February 1, 2022, the company announced that the Board of Directors had approved and declared a 20-for-one stock split in the form of a one-time special stock dividend on each share of the company’s Class A, Class B, and Class C stock. The Stock Split had a record date of July 1, 2022 and an effective date of July 15, 2022. The par value per share of our Class A, Class B, and Class C stock remains unchanged at $0.001 per share after the Stock Split. All prior period references made to share or per share amounts in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and applicable disclosures prior to the effective date have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the effects of the Stock Split.
Revenue Recognition
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, and the collectibility of an amount that we expect in exchange for those goods or services is probable. Sales and other similar taxes are excluded from revenues. 
Advertising Revenues
We generate advertising revenues primarily by delivering advertising on:
•Google Search and other properties, including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc. and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play;
•YouTube properties; and
•Google Network properties, including revenues from Google Network properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.
Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through Google Ads, Google Ad Manager, and Google Marketing Platform, among others.

Alphabet Inc.

We offer advertising by delivering both performance and brand advertising. We recognize revenues for performance advertising when a user engages with the advertisement, such as a click, a view, or a purchase. For brand advertising, we recognize revenues when the ad is displayed, or a user views the ad.
For ads placed on Google Network properties, we evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis). Generally, we report advertising revenues for ads placed on Google Network properties on a gross basis, that is, the amounts billed to our customers are recorded as revenues, and amounts paid to Google Network partners are recorded as cost of revenues. Where we are the principal, we control the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers. Our control is evidenced by our sole ability to monetize the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing.
Google Cloud Revenues
Google Cloud revenues consist of revenues from:
•Google Cloud Platform, which includes fees for infrastructure, platform, and other services;
•Google Workspace, which includes fees for cloud-based communication and collaboration tools for enterprises, such as Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, and Meet; and 
•other enterprise services.
Our cloud services are generally provided on either a consumption or subscription basis and may have contract terms longer than a year. Revenues related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis are recognized when the customer utilizes the services, based on the quantity of services consumed. Revenues related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis are recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services.
Google Other Revenues 
Google other revenues consist of revenues from:
•Google Play, which includes sales of apps and in-app purchases;
•hardware, which includes sales of Fitbit wearable devices, Google Nest home products, and Pixel devices;
•YouTube non-advertising, which includes subscription revenues from services such as YouTube Premium and YouTube TV; and
•other products and services.
We report revenues from Google Play app sales and in-app purchases on a net basis, because our performance obligation is to facilitate a transaction between app developers and end users, for which we earn a service fee. 
Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations
Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We generally determine standalone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers.
Customer Incentives and Credits
Certain customers receive cash-based incentives or credits, which are accounted for as variable consideration. We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenues. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration.
Sales Commissions
We expense sales commissions when incurred when the amortization period (the period of the expected benefit) is one year or less. We recognize an asset for certain sales commissions if we expect the period of benefit of these costs to exceed one year and recognize the expense over the amortization period. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of TAC and other costs of revenues.
•TAC includes: 

Alphabet Inc.

◦Amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
◦Amounts paid to Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed on their properties.
•Other cost of revenues includes:
◦Content acquisition costs, which are payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee).
◦Expenses associated with our data centers (including bandwidth, compensation expenses, depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs) as well as other operations costs (such as content review as well as customer and product support costs).
◦Inventory and other costs related to the hardware we sell.
Software Development Costs
We expense software development costs, including costs to develop software products or the software component of products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, before technological feasibility is reached. Technological feasibility is typically reached shortly before the release of such products. As a result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented.
Software development costs also include costs to develop software to be used solely to meet internal needs and cloud-based applications used to deliver our services. We capitalize development costs related to these software applications once the preliminary project stage is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented.
Stock-based Compensation
Stock-based compensation primarily consists of Alphabet restricted stock units (RSUs). RSUs are equity classified and measured at the fair market value of the underlying stock at the grant date. We recognize RSU expense using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period and account for forfeitures as they occur.
For RSUs, shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the applicable statutory income tax withholding to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, fewer shares are issued than the number of RSUs outstanding, and the income tax withholding is recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital.
Additionally, stock-based compensation includes other stock-based awards, such as performance stock units (PSUs) that include market conditions and awards that may be settled in cash or the stock of certain Other Bets. PSUs and certain Other Bet awards are equity classified and expense is recognized over the requisite service period. Certain Other Bet awards are liability classified and remeasured at fair value through settlement. The fair value of Other Bet awards is based on the equity valuation of the respective Other Bet.
Advertising and Promotional Expenses
We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $5.4 billion, $7.9 billion, and $9.2 billion, respectively.
Performance Fees
Performance fees refer to compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized returns from certain investments. We record compensation expense based on the estimated payouts on an ongoing basis, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized and compensation is paid and may require the use of unobservable inputs. Performance fees are recorded as a component of other income (expense), net.
Fair Value Measurements 
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability. Assets and 

Alphabet Inc.

liabilities recorded at fair value are measured and classified in accordance with a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the observability of the inputs available in the market used to measure fair value:
Level 1 - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2 - Inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activities.
The fair value hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The determination of fair value involves the use of appropriate valuation methods and relevant inputs into valuation models.
Our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative financial instruments, and certain non-marketable debt securities. Our financial assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include non-marketable equity securities. Other financial assets and liabilities are carried at cost with fair value disclosed, if required.
We measure certain other instruments, including stock-based compensation awards settled in the stock of certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, also at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. 
Financial Instruments
Our financial instruments include cash, cash equivalents, marketable and non-marketable securities, derivative financial instruments and accounts receivable.
Credit Risks
We are subject to credit risk from cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative financial instruments, including foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. We manage our credit risk exposure through timely assessment of our counterparty creditworthiness, credit limits and use of collateral management. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from customers located around the world. We manage our credit risk exposure by performing ongoing evaluations to determine customer credit and we limit the amount of credit we extend. We generally do not require collateral from our customers.
Cash Equivalents
We invest excess cash primarily in government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, time deposits, and money market funds.
Marketable Securities
We classify all marketable debt securities that have effective maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase as cash equivalents and those with effective maturities of greater than three months as marketable securities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. We have classified and accounted for our marketable debt securities as available-for-sale. After consideration of our risk versus reward objectives, as well as our liquidity requirements, we may sell these debt securities prior to their effective maturities. As we view these securities as available to support current operations, we classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond 12 months as current assets under the caption marketable securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We carry these securities at fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, as a component of stockholders’ equity, except for the changes in allowance for expected credit losses, which are recorded in other income (expense), net. For certain marketable debt securities we have elected the fair value option, for which changes in fair value are recorded in other income (expense), net. We determine any realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable debt securities on a specific identification method, and we record such gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net.
Our investments in marketable equity securities are measured at fair value with the related gains and losses, including unrealized, recognized in other income (expense), net. We classify our marketable equity securities subject 

Alphabet Inc.

to long-term lock-up restrictions beyond twelve months as other non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Non-Marketable Securities
We account for non-marketable equity securities through which we exercise significant influence but do not have control over the investee under the equity method, All other non-marketable equity securities that we hold are primarily accounted for under the measurement alternative. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value is measured at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. Adjustments are determined primarily based on a market approach as of the transaction date and are recorded as a component of other income (expense), net.
Non-marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale securities.
Non-marketable securities that do not have effective contractual maturity dates are classified as other non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Derivative Financial Instruments
See Note 3 for the accounting policy pertaining to derivative financial instruments. 
Accounts Receivable
Our payment terms for accounts receivable vary by the types and locations of our customers and the products or services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customers, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer. Additionally, accounts receivable includes amounts for services performed in advance of the right to invoice the customer.
We maintain an allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, which is recorded as an offset to accounts receivable, and changes in such are classified as general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. We assess collectibility by reviewing accounts receivable on a collective basis where similar characteristics exist and on an individual basis when we identify specific customers with known disputes or collectibility issues. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we consider historical collectibility based on past due status and make judgments about the creditworthiness of customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. We also consider customer-specific information, current market conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions.
Other
Our financial instruments also include debt and equity investments in companies with which we also have commercial arrangements. For these transactions, judgment is required to assess the substance of the arrangements, whether the arrangements and each component of the arrangements should be accounted for as separate transactions under the applicable GAAP, as well as the determination of the value of the components of the arrangements, including the fair value of the investments. 
Impairment of Investments
We periodically review our debt and non-marketable equity securities for impairment. 
For debt securities in an unrealized loss position, we determine whether a credit loss exists. The credit loss is estimated by considering available information relevant to the collectibility of the security and information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Any credit loss is recorded as a charge to other income (expense), net, not to exceed the amount of the unrealized loss. Unrealized losses other than the credit loss are recognized in AOCI. If we have an intent to sell, or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a debt security in an unrealized loss position before recovery of its amortized cost basis, we will write down the security to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as a component of other income (expense), net. 
For non-marketable equity securities, including equity method investments, we consider whether impairment indicators exist by evaluating the companies' financial and liquidity position and access to capital resources, among other indicators. If the assessment indicates that the investment is impaired, we write down the investment to its fair value by recording the corresponding charge as a component of other income (expense), net. We prepare quantitative measurements of the fair value of our equity investments using a market approach or an income approach.

Alphabet Inc.

Inventory
Inventory consists primarily of finished goods and is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is computed using the first-in, first-out method.
Variable Interest Entities
We determine at the inception of each arrangement whether an entity in which we have made an investment or in which we have other variable interests is considered a variable interest entity (VIE). We consolidate VIEs when we are the primary beneficiary. We are the primary beneficiary of a VIE when we have the power to direct activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE and have the obligation to absorb the majority of their losses or benefits. If we are not the primary beneficiary in a VIE, we account for the investment or other variable interests in a VIE in accordance with applicable GAAP.
Periodically, we assess whether any changes in our interest or relationship with the entity affect our determination of whether the entity is a VIE and, if so, whether we are the primary beneficiary. 
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment includes the following categories: land and buildings, information technology assets, construction in progress, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. Land and buildings include land, offices, data centers, and related building improvements. Information technology assets include servers and network equipment. Construction in progress is the construction or development of property and equipment that have not yet been placed in service. 
We account for property and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation. We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which we regularly evaluate. Land is not depreciated. We depreciate buildings over periods of seven to 25 years. We depreciate information technology assets generally over periods of four to five years (generally, four years for servers and five years for network equipment). We depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets. Depreciation for buildings, information technology assets, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures commences once they are ready for our intended use.
Leases
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Our lease agreements generally contain lease and non-lease components. Payments under our lease arrangements are primarily fixed. Non-lease components primarily include payments for maintenance and utilities. We combine fixed payments for non-lease components with lease payments and account for them together as a single lease component which increases the amount of our lease assets and liabilities.
Certain lease agreements contain variable payments, which are expensed as incurred and not included in the lease assets and liabilities. These amounts include payments affected by the Consumer Price Index, payments contingent on wind or solar production for power purchase arrangements, and payments for maintenance and utilities.
Lease assets and liabilities are recognized at the present value of the future lease payments at the lease commencement date. The interest rate used to determine the present value of the future lease payments is our incremental borrowing rate, because the interest rate implicit in our leases is not readily determinable. Our incremental borrowing rate is estimated to approximate the interest rate on a collateralized basis with similar terms and payments, and in economic environments where the leased asset is located. Our lease terms include periods under options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. We generally use the base, non-cancelable, lease term when determining the lease assets and liabilities. Lease assets also include any prepaid lease payments and lease incentives.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The current portion of our operating lease liabilities is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and the long-term portion is included in operating lease liabilities. Finance lease assets are included in property and equipment, net. Finance lease liabilities are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities or long-term debt.
Operating lease expense (excluding variable lease costs) is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets
We review property and equipment and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows independent of other assets. We measure recoverability of these assets by 

Alphabet Inc.

comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets or the asset group are expected to generate. If the carrying value of the assets or asset group is not recoverable, the impairment recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its fair value. Impairments were not material for the periods presented.
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the expected benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units periodically, as well as when changes in our operating segments occur. For changes in reporting units, we reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairments were not material for the periods presented.
Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis generally over periods ranging from one to twelve years, and are subsequently removed from the presentation of gross intangible assets and accumulated amortization once they are fully amortized.
Income Taxes
We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which we recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based on provisions of enacted tax law. We evaluate the realization of our deferred tax assets based on all available evidence and establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will not be realized. We have elected to account for the tax effects of the global intangible low tax Income provision as a current period expense.
We recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not that, based on technical merits, the position will be sustained upon examination. The tax benefits of the position recognized in the financial statements are then measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. In addition, we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the income tax provision.
Business Combinations
We include the results of operations of the businesses that we acquire as of the acquisition date. We allocate the purchase price of the acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values, except for revenue contracts acquired, which are recognized in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred.
Foreign Currency
We translate the financial statements of our international subsidiaries to U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. We record translation gains and losses in AOCI as a component of stockholders’ equity. We reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion of the transaction currency to functional currency as a component of foreign currency exchange gain (loss) in other income (expense), net.
Prior Period Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.

Alphabet Inc.

Note 2. Revenues 
Disaggregated Revenues
The following table presents revenues disaggregated by type (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Google Search & other | $ | 104,062 | | | $ | 148,951 | | $ | 162,450
YouTube ads | 19,772 | | | 28,845 | | | 29,243 
Google Network | 23,090 | | | 31,701 | | | 32,780 
Google advertising | 146,924 | | | 209,497 | | | 224,473
Google other | 21,711 | | | 28,032 | | | 29,055 
Google Services total | 168,635 | | | 237,529 | | | 253,528
Google Cloud | 13,059 | | | 19,206 | | | 26,280 
Other Bets | 657 | | | 753 | | | 1,068 
Hedging gains (losses) | 176 | | | 149 | | | 1,960 
Total revenues | $ | 182,527 | | | $ | 257,637 | | $ | 282,836

No individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than 10% of our revenues in 2020, 2021, or 2022.
The following table presents revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the addresses of our customers (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
United States | $ | 85,014 | | | 47 | % | | $ | 117,854 | | 46 | % | $ | 134,814 | 48 | %
EMEA(1) | 55,370 | | | 30 | | | 79,107 | | | 31 | | 82,062 | | 29 
APAC(1) | 32,550 | | | 18 | | | 46,123 | | | 18 | | 47,024 | | 16 
Other Americas(1) | 9,417 | | | 5 | | | 14,404 | | | 5 | | 16,976 | | 6 
Hedging gains (losses) | 176 | | | 0 | | | 149 | | | 0 | | 1,960 | | 1 
Total revenues | $ | 182,527 | | | 100 | % | | $ | 257,637 | | 100 | % | $ | 282,836 | 100 | %

(1)    Regions represent Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific (APAC); and Canada and Latin America ("Other Americas").
Revenue Backlog 
As of December 31, 2022, we had $64.3 billion of remaining performance obligations (“revenue backlog”), primarily related to Google Cloud. Our revenue backlog represents commitments in customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized as revenue. The amount and timing of revenue recognition for these commitments is largely driven by our ability to deliver in accordance with relevant contract terms and when our customers utilize services, which could affect our estimate of revenue backlog and when we expect to recognize such as revenue. We expect to recognize approximately half of the revenue backlog as revenues over the next 24 months with the remaining to be recognized thereafter. Revenue backlog includes related deferred revenue currently recorded as well as amounts that will be invoiced in future periods, and excludes contracts with an original expected term of one year or less and cancellable contracts.
Deferred Revenue
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance, including amounts which are refundable. Deferred revenues primarily relate to Google Cloud and Google other. Total deferred revenue as of December 31, 2021 was $3.8 billion, of which $2.5 billion was recognized as revenues for the year ending December 31, 2022.

Alphabet Inc.

Note 3. Financial Instruments
Fair Value Measurements
Investments measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable equity securities are measured at fair value and classified within Level 1 and Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, because we use quoted prices for identical assets in active markets or inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets. 
Debt securities are classified within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, because we use quoted market prices to the extent available or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs to determine fair value. For certain marketable debt securities, we have elected the fair value option for which changes in fair value are recorded in other income (expense), net. The fair value option was elected for these securities to align with the unrealized gains and losses from related derivative contracts.
The following tables summarize our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in millions):

 | | As of December 31, 2021
 | Fair Value Hierarchy | Adjusted Cost | | Gross Unrealized Gains | Gross Unrealized Losses | | Fair Value | | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | Marketable Securities
Fair value changes recorded in other comprehensive income | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | Level 2 | $ | 5,133 | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 5,133 | | | $ | 5,133 | $ | 0 
Government bonds | Level 2 | 53,288 | | 258 | | (238) | | | 53,308 | | | 5 | | | 53,303 | 
Corporate debt securities | Level 2 | 35,605 | | 194 | | (223) | | | 35,576 | | | 12 | | | 35,564 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | Level 2 | 18,829 | | 96 | | (112) | | | 18,813 | | | 0 | | | 18,813 | 
Total investments with fair value change reflected in Other Comprehensive Income(2) | | $ | 112,855 | | $ | 548 | | | $ | (573) | | | $ | 112,830 | | | $ | 5,150 | $ | 107,680
Fair value adjustments recorded in net income | | | | | | | | | | | 
Money market funds | Level 1 | | | | | | $ | 7,499 | | | $ | 7,499 | | | $ | 0 | 
Current marketable equity securities(3) | Level 1 | | | | | | 5,998 | | | 0 | | | 5,998 | 
Mutual funds | Level 2 | | | | | | 351 | | | 0 | | | 351 | 
Government bonds | Level 2 | | | | | | 1,165 | | | 0 | | | 1,165 | 
Corporate debt securities | Level 2 | | | | | | 2,503 | | | 0 | | | 2,503 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | Level 2 | | | | | | 1,007 | | | 0 | | | 1,007 | 
Total investments with fair value change recorded in Net Income | | | | | | | $ | 18,523 | | | $ | 7,499 | | | $ | 11,024 | 
Cash | | | | | | | 0 | | | 8,296 | | | 0 | 
Total | | $ | 112,855 | | $ | 548 | | | $ | (573) | | | $ | 131,353 | | | $ | 20,945 | $ | 118,704

(1)The majority of our time deposits are domestic deposits. 
(2)Represents gross unrealized gains and losses for debt securities recorded to AOCI.
(3)The long-term portion of marketable equity securities (subject to long-term lock-up restrictions) of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 is included within other non-current assets.

Alphabet Inc.


 | | As of December 31, 2022
 | Fair Value Hierarchy | Adjusted Cost | | Gross Unrealized Gains | | Gross Unrealized Losses | | Fair Value | | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | Marketable Securities
Fair value changes recorded in other comprehensive income | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | Level 2 | $ | 5,297 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 5,297 | | | $ | 5,293 | $ | 4 
Government bonds | Level 2 | 41,036 | | | 64 | | | (2,045) | | | 39,055 | | | 283 | | | 38,772 | 
Corporate debt securities | Level 2 | 28,578 | | | 8 | | | (1,569) | | | 27,017 | | | 1 | | | 27,016 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | Level 2 | 16,176 | | | 5 | | | (1,242) | | | 14,939 | | | 0 | | | 14,939 | 
Total investments with fair value change reflected in Other Comprehensive Income(2) | | $ | 91,087 | | | $ | 77 | | | $ | (4,856) | | | $ | 86,308 | | | $ | 5,577 | $ | 80,731
Fair value adjustments recorded in net income | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Money market funds | Level 1 | | | | | | | $ | 7,234 | | | $ | 7,234 | | | $ | 0 | 
Current marketable equity securities(3) | Level 1 | | | | | | | 4,013 | | 0 | | | 4,013
Mutual funds | Level 2 | | | | | | | 339 | | 0 | | | 339 
Government bonds | Level 2 | | | | | | | 1,877 | | 440 | | | 1,437
Corporate debt securities | Level 2 | | | | | | | 3,744 | | 65 | | | 3,679
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | Level 2 | | | | | | | 1,686 | | 2 | | | 1,684
Total investments with fair value change recorded in Net Income | | | | | | | | $ | 18,893 | | | $ | 7,741 | | | $ | 11,152 | 
Cash | | | | | | | | 0 | | | 8,561 | | | 0 | 
Total | | $ | 91,087 | | | $ | 77 | | | $ | (4,856) | | | $ | 105,201 | | | $ | 21,879 | $ | 91,883

(1)The majority of our time deposits are domestic deposits.
(2)Represents gross unrealized gains and losses for debt securities recorded to AOCI. 
(3)The long-term portion of marketable equity securities (subject to long-term lock-up restrictions) of $803 million as of December 31, 2022 is included within other non-current assets.
Investments measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis 
Our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies without readily determinable market values. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities is adjusted to fair value upon observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment. Non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured during the period based on observable transactions are classified within Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because we estimate the value based on valuation methods which may include a combination of the observable transaction price at the transaction date and other unobservable inputs including volatility, rights, and obligations of the securities we hold. The fair value of non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured due to impairment are classified within Level 3.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, included in the $28.5 billion of non-marketable equity securities held as of the end of the period, $14.1 billion were measured at fair value and primarily classified as Level 2 investments.

Alphabet Inc.

Debt Securities
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of investments in available-for-sale marketable debt securities by effective contractual maturity dates (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2022
Due in 1 year or less | $ | 8,170 
Due in 1 year through 5 years | 51,698 | 
Due in 5 years through 10 years | 16,083 | 
Due after 10 years | 11,580 | 
Total | $ | 87,531

The following tables present fair values and gross unrealized losses recorded to AOCI, aggregated by investment category and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2021
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds | $ | 32,843 | | | $ | (236) | | $ | 71 | | $ | (2) | | $ | 32,914 | $ | (238)
Corporate debt securities | 22,737 | | | (152) | | | 303 | | (5) | | 23,040 | | (157) | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 11,502 | | | (106) | | | 248 | | (6) | | 11,750 | | (112) | 
Total | $ | 67,082 | | | $ | (494) | | $ | 622 | | $ | (13) | | $ | 67,704 | $ | (507)


 | As of December 31, 2022
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds | $ | 21,039 | | | $ | (1,004) | | $ | 13,438 | | $ | (1,041) | | $ | 34,477 | $ | (2,045)
Corporate debt securities | 11,228 | | | (440) | | | 15,125 | | (1,052) | | 26,353 | | (1,492) | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 7,725 | | | (585) | | | 6,964 | | (657) | | 14,689 | | (1,242) | 
Total | $ | 39,992 | | | $ | (2,029) | | $ | 35,527 | | $ | (2,750) | | $ | 75,519 | $ | (4,779)

We determine realized gains or losses on the sale or extinguishment of debt securities on a specific identification method.The following table summarizes gains and losses for debt securities, reflected as a component of other income (expense), net (in millions):    

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Unrealized gain (loss) on fair value option debt securities(1) | $ | 86 | | | $ | (122) | | $ | (557) 
Gross realized gain on debt securities | 899 | | | 432 | | | 103 
Gross realized loss on debt securities | (184) | | | (329) | | | (1,588)
(Increase)/decrease in allowance for credit losses | (76) | | | (91) | | | (22) 
Total gain (loss) on debt securities recognized in other income (expense), net | $ | 725 | | | $ | (110) | | $ | (2,064)

(1)Accumulated unrealized net gains (losses) related to debt securities still held where we have elected the fair value option were $87 million, $(35) million, and $(592) million as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, respectively.

Alphabet Inc.

Equity Investments
The carrying value of equity securities is measured as the total initial cost plus the cumulative net gain (loss). Our share of gains and losses, including impairments, are included as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 7 for further details on other income (expense), net.
The carrying values for marketable and non-marketable equity securities are summarized below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2021 | | As of December 31, 2022 
 | Marketable Equity Securities | | Non-Marketable Equity Securities | Total | | Marketable Equity Securities | Non-Marketable Equity Securities | | Total
Total initial cost | $ | 4,211 | | $ | 15,135 | | $ | 19,346 | | | $ | 5,764 | | $ | 16,157 | $ | 21,921
Cumulative net gain (loss)(1) | 3,587 | | 12,436 | | 16,023 | | (608) | | | 12,372 | | | 11,764
Carrying value | $ | 7,798 | | $ | 27,571 | | $ | 35,369 | | | $ | 5,156 | | $ | 28,529 | $ | 33,685

(1)Non-marketable equity securities cumulative net gain (loss) is comprised of $14.1 billion gains and $1.7 billion losses (including impairments) as of December 31, 2021 and $16.8 billion gains and $4.5 billion losses (including impairments) as of December 31, 2022.
Gains and losses on marketable and non-marketable equity securities
Gains and losses (including impairments), net, for marketable and non-marketable equity securities included in other income (expense), net are summarized below (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Realized net gain (loss) on equity securities sold during the period | $ | 1,339 | | | $ | 1,196 | | $ | (442) 
Unrealized net gain (loss) on marketable equity securities | 2,722 | | | 1,335 | | | (3,242)
Unrealized net gain (loss) on non-marketable equity securities(1) | 1,531 | | | 9,849 | | | 229 
Total gain (loss) on equity securities in other income (expense), net | $ | 5,592 | | | $ | 12,380 | | $ | (3,455)

(1)Unrealized gain (loss) on non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the measurement alternative is comprised of $3.0 billion, $10.0 billion, and $3.3 billion of upward adjustments as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, respectively, and $1.5 billion, $122 million, and $3.0 billion of downward adjustments (including impairments) as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, respectively.
In the table above, realized net gain (loss) on equity securities sold during the period reflects the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying value of the equity securities at the beginning of the period or the purchase date, if later. 
Cumulative net gains (losses) on equity securities sold during the period, which is summarized in the following table (in millions), represents the total net gains (losses) recognized after the initial purchase date of the equity security sold during the period. While these net gains (losses) may have been reflected in periods prior to the period of sale, we believe they are important supplemental information as they reflect the economic net gains (losses) on the securities sold during the period. Cumulative net gains (losses) are calculated as the difference between the sale price and the initial purchase price for the equity security sold during the period.

 | Equity Securities Sold During the Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Total sale price | $ | 5,604 | | | $ | 1,784
Total initial cost | 1,206 | | | 937 | 
Cumulative net gains (losses)(1) | $ | 4,398 | | | $ | 847 

(1)Cumulative net gains excludes cumulative losses of $738 million resulting from our equity derivatives, which hedged the changes in fair value of certain marketable equity securities sold during the year ended December 31, 2021. The associated derivative liabilities arising from these losses were settled against our holdings of the underlying equity securities.

Alphabet Inc.

Equity securities accounted for under the equity method
As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, equity securities accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of approximately $1.5 billion for both years. Our share of gains and losses, including impairments, are included as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 7 for further details on other income (expense), net.
Derivative Financial Instruments
We use derivative instruments to manage risks relating to our ongoing business operations. The primary risk managed is foreign exchange risk. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the risk that our cash flows, earnings, and investment in foreign subsidiaries will be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We also enter into derivative instruments to partially offset our exposure to other risks and enhance investment returns.
We recognize derivative instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value and classify the derivatives primarily within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. We present our collar contracts (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) at net fair values and present all other derivatives at gross fair values. The accounting treatment for derivatives is based on the intended use and hedge designation.
Cash Flow Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward and option contracts (including collars) as cash flow hedges to hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. These contracts have maturities of 24 months or less.
Cash flow hedge amounts included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are deferred in AOCI and subsequently reclassified to revenue when the hedged item is recognized in earnings. We exclude forward points and time value from our assessment of hedge effectiveness and amortize them on a straight-line basis over the life of the hedging instrument in revenues. The difference between fair value changes of the excluded component and the amount amortized to revenues is recorded in AOCI.
As of December 31, 2022, the net accumulated gain on our foreign currency cash flow hedges before tax effect was $171 million, which is expected to be reclassified from AOCI into revenues within the next 12 months.
Fair Value Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward contracts as fair value hedges to hedge foreign currency risks for our marketable securities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fair value hedge amounts included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in other income (expense), net, along with the offsetting gains and losses of the related hedged items. We exclude forward points from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognize changes in the excluded component in other income (expense), net.
Net Investment Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward contracts as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to our investment in foreign subsidiaries. Net investment hedge amounts included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in AOCI along with the foreign currency translation adjustment. We exclude forward points from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognize changes in the excluded component in other income (expense), net.
Other Derivatives
We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts that are not designated as hedging instruments to hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a subsidiary. Gains and losses on these derivatives that are not designated as accounting hedges are primarily recorded in other income (expense), net along with the foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to manage risks relating to interest rates, commodity prices, credit exposures, and to enhance investment returns. From time to time, we enter into derivatives to hedge the market price risk on certain of our marketable equity securities. Gains and losses arising from other derivatives are primarily reflected within the “other” component of other income (expense), net. See Note 7 for further details. 

Alphabet Inc.

The gross notional amounts of outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments: | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | 
Cash flow hedges | $ | 16,362 | | $ | 15,972
Fair value hedges | $ | 2,556 | | $ | 2,117 
Net investment hedges | $ | 10,159 | | $ | 8,751 
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments: | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | $ | 41,031 | | $ | 34,979
Other contracts | $ | 4,275 | | $ | 7,932 

The fair values of outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2021 | | As of December 31, 2022
 | Assets(1) | | Liabilities(2) | | Assets(1) | | Liabilities(2)
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments: | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | $ | 867 | | | $ | 8 | | $ | 271 | $ | 556
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments: | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | 42 | | | 452 | | | 365 | | 207
Other contracts | 52 | | | 121 | | | 40 | | 47 
Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments | 94 | | | 573 | | | 405 | | 254
Total | $ | 961 | | | $ | 581 | | $ | 676 | $ | 810

(1)    Derivative assets are recorded as other current and non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
(2)    Derivative liabilities are recorded as accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The gains (losses) on derivatives in cash flow hedging and net investment hedging relationships recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI) are summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in OCIon Derivatives Before Tax Effect
 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | $ | 102 | | | $ | 806 | | $ | 1,699
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | (37) | | | 48 | | | (188)
Derivatives in net investment hedging relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | (851) | | | 754 | | | 608 
Total | $ | (786) | | | $ | 1,608 | | $ | 2,119


Alphabet Inc.

The table below presents the gains (losses) of our derivatives on the Consolidated Statements of Income: (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income
 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022 
 | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net
Total amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Income | $ | 182,527 | | | $ | 6,858 | | $ | 257,637 | | | $ | 12,020 | | | $ | 282,836 | $ | (3,514)
Effect of cash flow hedges: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount reclassified from AOCI to income | $ | 144 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 165 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 2,046 | $ | 0 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness (amortized) | 33 | | | 0 | | | (16) | | 0 | | | (85) | | | 0 | 
Effect of fair value hedges: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Hedged items | 0 | | | 18 | | | 0 | | (95) | | | 0 | | | (162) | 
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments | 0 | | | (18) | | | 0 | | 95 | | | 0 | | | 163 | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 4 | | | 0 | | 8 | | | 0 | | | 16 | 
Effect of net investment hedges: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 151 | | | 0 | | 82 | | | 0 | | | 171 | 
Effect of non designated hedges: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | 0 | | | 718 | | | 0 | (860) | | | 0 | | | (395) | 
Other contracts | 0 | | | (906) | | | 0 | | 101 | | | 0 | | | 144 | 
Total gains (losses) | $ | 177 | | | $ | (33) | | $ | 149 | | | $ | (669) | | | $ | 1,961 | $ | (63) 

Offsetting of Derivatives
We enter into master netting arrangements and collateral security arrangements to reduce credit risk. Cash collateral received related to derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included in other current assets with a corresponding liability. Cash and non-cash collateral pledged related to derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included in other current assets.

Alphabet Inc.

The gross amounts of derivative instruments subject to master netting arrangements with various counterparties, and cash and non-cash collateral received and pledged under such agreements were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2021 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts Recognized | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Amounts Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments(1) | Cash and Non-Cash Collateral Received or Pledged | | Net Amounts
Derivatives assets | $ | 999 | | $ | (38) | | $ | 961 | | $ | (434) | $ | (406) | $ | 121
Derivatives liabilities | $ | 619 | | $ | (38) | | $ | 581 | | $ | (434) | $ | (114) | $ | 33 
 | As of December 31, 2022 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross AmountsRecognized | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Amounts Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments(1) | Cash and Non-Cash Collateral Received or Pledged | | Net Amounts
Derivatives assets | $ | 760 | | $ | (84) | | $ | 676 | | $ | (463) | $ | (132) | $ | 81 
Derivatives liabilities | $ | 894 | | $ | (84) | | $ | 810 | | $ | (463) | $ | (28) | $ | 319

(1)    The balances as of December 31, 2021 and 2022 were related to derivatives allowed to be net settled in accordance with our master netting agreements.
Note 4. Leases 
We have entered into operating lease agreements primarily for data centers, land, and offices throughout the world with lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2063. 
Components of operating lease expense were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Operating lease cost | $ | 2,267 | | | $ | 2,699 | | $ | 2,900
Variable lease cost | 619 | | | 726 | | | 838
Total operating lease cost | $ | 2,886 | | | $ | 3,425 | | $ | 3,738

Supplemental information related to operating leases was as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | 2022
Cash payments for operating leases | $ | 2,004 | | $ | 2,489 | $ | 2,722
New operating lease assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities | $ | 2,765 | | $ | 2,951 | $ | 4,383


Alphabet Inc.

As of December 31, 2022, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease term of eight years and a weighted average discount rate of 2.8%. Future lease payments under operating leases as of December 31, 2022 were as follows (in millions):

2023 | $ | 2,955 
2024 | 2,771 | 
2025 | 2,377 | 
2026 | 1,953 | 
2027 | 1,502 | 
Thereafter | 5,882 | 
Total future lease payments | 17,440 | 
Less imputed interest | (2,462) | 
Total lease liability balance | $ | 14,978

As of December 31, 2022, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with short-term and long-term future lease payments of $630 million and $3.1 billion that are not yet recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between 2023 and 2026 with non-cancelable lease terms between 1 and 25 years.
Note 5. Variable Interest Entities 
Consolidated VIEs
We consolidate VIEs in which we hold a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. The results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are included in our consolidated financial statements.
 For certain consolidated VIEs, their assets are not available to us and their creditors do not have recourse to us. As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, assets that can only be used to settle obligations of these VIEs were $6.0 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively, and the liabilities for which creditors only have recourse to the VIEs were $2.5 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. We may continue to fund ongoing operations of certain VIEs that are included within Other Bets.
Total noncontrolling interests (NCI) in our consolidated subsidiaries were $4.3 billion and $3.8 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, respectively, of which $1.1 billion is redeemable noncontrolling interest (RNCI) for both periods. NCI and RNCI are included within additional paid-in capital. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was not material for any period presented and is included within the "other" component of OI&E. See Note 7 for further details on OI&E.
Unconsolidated VIEs
We have investments in VIEs in which we are not the primary beneficiary. These VIEs include private companies that are primarily early stage companies and certain renewable energy entities in which activities involve power generation using renewable sources. 
We have determined that the governance structures of these entities do not allow us to direct the activities that would significantly affect their economic performance. Therefore, we are not the primary beneficiary, and the results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are not included in our consolidated financial statements. We account for these investments as non-marketable equity securities or equity method investments.
The maximum exposure of these unconsolidated VIEs is generally based on the current carrying value of the investments and any future funding commitments. We have determined that the single source of our exposure to these VIEs is our capital investments in them. The carrying value and maximum exposure of these unconsolidated VIEs were $2.7 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2021 and $2.7 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2022.
Note 6. Debt 
Short-Term Debt
We have a debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and 2022. 
Our short-term debt balance also includes the current portion of certain long-term debt.

Alphabet Inc.

Long-Term Debt
Total outstanding debt is summarized below (in millions, except percentages):

 | | | Effective Interest Rate | | As of December 31,
 | Maturity | Coupon Rate | | 2021 | | 2022 
Debt | | | | | | 
2014-2020 Notes issuances | 2024 - 2060 | 0.45% - 3.38% | 0.57% - 3.38% | | $ | 13,000 | | $ | 13,000
Future finance lease payments, net and other (1) | | | | | 2,086 | | 2,142 | 
Total debt | | | | | 15,086 | | 15,142 | 
Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs | | | | | (156) | | (143) | 
Less: current portion of future finance lease payments, net and other current debt(1)(2) | | | | | (113) | | (298) | 
Total long-term debt | | | | | $ | 14,817 | | $ | 14,701

(1)Future finance lease payments are net of imputed interest.
(2)Total current portion of long-term debt is included within other accrued expenses and current liabilities. See Note 7 for further details.
The notes in the table above are fixed-rate senior unsecured obligations and generally rank equally with each other. We may redeem the notes at any time in whole or in part at specified redemption prices. The effective interest rates are based on proceeds received with interest payable semi-annually.
The total estimated fair value of the outstanding notes was approximately $12.4 billion and $9.9 billion as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The fair value was determined based on observable market prices of identical instruments in less active markets and is categorized accordingly as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
As of December 31, 2022, the aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt, including finance lease liabilities, for each of the next five years and thereafter were as follows (in millions):

2023 | $ | 221 
2024 | 1,156
2025 | 1,159
2026 | 2,163
2027 | 1,166
Thereafter | 9,447
Total | $ | 15,312

Credit Facility
As of December 31, 2022, we had $10.0 billion of revolving credit facilities, $4.0 billion expiring in April 2023 and $6.0 billion expiring in April 2026. The interest rates for all credit facilities are determined based on a formula using certain market rates, as well as our progress toward the achievement of certain sustainability goals. No amounts were outstanding under the credit facilities as of December 31, 2021 and 2022.
Note 7. Supplemental Financial Statement Information 
Accounts Receivable
The allowance for credit losses on accounts receivable was $550 million and $754 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, respectively.

Alphabet Inc.

Property and Equipment, Net
Property and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Land and buildings | $ | 58,881 | | | $ | 66,897 
Information technology assets | 55,606 | | | 66,267 | 
Construction in progress | 23,172 | | | 27,657 | 
Leasehold improvements | 9,146 | | | 10,575 | 
Furniture and fixtures | 208 | | | 314 | 
Property and equipment, gross | 147,013 | | | 171,710 | 
Less: accumulated depreciation | (49,414) | | | (59,042) | 
Property and equipment, net | $ | 97,599 | | | $ | 112,668

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
European Commission fines(1) | $ | 9,799 | | | $ | 9,106 
Accrued customer liabilities | 3,505 | | | 3,619 | 
Accrued purchases of property and equipment | 2,415 | | | 3,019 | 
Current operating lease liabilities | 2,189 | | | 2,477 | 
Other accrued expenses and current liabilities | 14,136 | | | 19,645 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | $ | 32,044 | | | $ | 37,866

(1)    While each EC decision is under appeal, the fines are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines. Amounts include the effects of foreign exchange and interest. See Note 10 for further details.

Alphabet Inc.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Components of AOCI, net of income tax, were as follows (in millions):

 | Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Investments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges | | Total 
Balance as of December 31, 2019 | $ | (2,003) | | | $ | 812 | | $ | (41) | $ | (1,232)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | 1,139 | | | 1,313 | | | 79 | | 2,531 
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | (37) | | (37) 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (513) | | | (116) | | (629) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 1,139 | | | 800 | | | (74) | | 1,865 
Balance as of December 31, 2020 | (864) | | | 1,612 | | | (115) | | 633 
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (1,442) | | | (1,312) | | | 668 | | (2,086)
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | 48 | | 48 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (64) | | | (154) | | (218) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,442) | | | (1,376) | | | 562 | | (2,256)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 | (2,306) | | | 236 | | | 447 | | (1,623)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (1,836) | | | (4,720) | | | 1,463 | | (5,093)
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | (188) | | (188) 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 1,007 | | | (1,706) | | (699) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,836) | | | (3,713) | | | (431) | | (5,980)
Balance as of December 31, 2022 | $ | (4,142) | | | $ | (3,477) | | $ | 16 | $ | (7,603)

The effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI were as follows (in millions):

 | | | Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI to the Consolidated Statements of Income | 
 | | | Year Ended December 31, | 
AOCI Components | | Location | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022 | 
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments | | | | | | 
 | | Other income (expense), net | $ | 650 | | | $ | 82 | | | $ | (1,291)
 | | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | (137) | | | (18) | | | 284 | | 
 | | Net of income tax | 513 | | | 64 | | | (1,007) | | 
Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | Revenue | 144 | | | 165 | | | 2,046 | | 
Interest rate contracts | | Other income (expense), net | 6 | | | 6 | | | 6 | | 
 | | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | (34) | | | (17) | | | (346) | | 
 | | Net of income tax | 116 | | | 154 | | | 1,706 | | 
Total amount reclassified, net of income tax | $ | 629 | | | $ | 218 | | | $ | 699 | | 


Alphabet Inc.

Other Income (Expense), Net 
Components of OI&E were as follows (in millions): 

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Interest income | $ | 1,865 | | | $ | 1,499 | | $ | 2,174 
Interest expense(1) | (135) | | | (346) | | | (357) 
Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net | (344) | | | (240) | | | (654) 
Gain (loss) on debt securities, net | 725 | | | (110) | | | (2,064)
Gain (loss) on equity securities, net | 5,592 | | | 12,380 | | | (3,455)
Performance fees | (609) | | | (1,908) | | | 798 
Income (loss) and impairment from equity method investments, net | 401 | | | 334 | | | (337) 
Other | (637) | | | 411 | | | 381 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 6,858 | | | $ | 12,020 | | $ | (3,514)

(1)    Interest expense is net of interest capitalized of $218 million, $163 million, and $128 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, respectively.
Note 8. Acquisitions 
Mandiant Acquisition
On September 12, 2022 we closed the acquisition of Mandiant for a total purchase price of $6.1 billion, including cash and debt. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. Mandiant's dynamic cyber defense, threat intelligence and incident response services are expected to enhance Google Cloud's security offerings. The financial results of Mandiant have been included within the Google Cloud segment as of the close of the acquisition. 
The purchase price was allocated as follows (in millions):

Intangible assets | $ | 840 
Goodwill(1) | 4,772 | 
Net assets acquired(2) | 489 | 
Total purchase price | $ | 6,101

(1)Goodwill was recorded in the Google Cloud segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
(2)Includes $706 million of acquired cash.
Intangible assets acquired as of the acquisition date were as follows:

 | Amount (in millions) | | Weighted-Average Useful Life(in years)
Patents and developed technology | $ | 349 | | | 4.8
Customer relationships | 366 | | | 8.0
Trade names and other | 125 | | | 5.9
Total intangible assets | $ | 840 | | | 


Alphabet Inc.

Note 9. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
Goodwill
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022 were as follows (in millions):

 | Google Services | | Google Cloud | | Other Bets | | Total
Balance as of December 31, 2020 | $ | 18,517 | | | $ | 1,957 | | $ | 701 | $ | 21,175
Acquisitions | 1,325 | | | 382 | | | 103 | | 1,810 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | (16) | | | (2) | | | (11) | | (29) 
Balance as of December 31, 2021 | 19,826 | | | 2,337 | | | 793 | | 22,956
Acquisitions | 1,176 | | | 4,876 | | | 119 | | 6,171 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | (155) | | | (8) | | | (4) | | (167) 
Balance as of December 31, 2022 | $ | 20,847 | | | $ | 7,205 | | $ | 908 | $ | 28,960

Other Intangible Assets
Information regarding intangible assets was as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2021 | | As of December 31, 2022
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingAmount | | GrossCarryingAmount | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingValue | Weighted-Average Remaining Useful Life (in years)
Patents and developed technology | $ | 4,786 | | | $ | 4,112 | | $ | 674 | | $ | 1,164 | | $ | 354 | | $ | 810 | 3.2
Customer relationships | 506 | | | 140 | | | 366 | | 862 | | 235 | | 627 | | | 5.0
Trade names and other | 534 | | | 295 | | | 239 | | 527 | | 120 | | 407 | | | 6.3
Total definite-lived intangible assets | 5,826 | | | 4,547 | | | 1,279 | | 2,553 | | 709 | | 1,844 | | | 
Indefinite-lived intangible assets | 138 | | | 0 | | | 138 | | 240 | | 0 | | 240 | | | 
Total intangible assets | $ | 5,964 | | | $ | 4,547 | | $ | 1,417 | | $ | 2,793 | | $ | 709 | | $ | 2,084 | 

For the year ended December 31, 2022, $4.5 billion of intangible assets that were fully amortized have been removed from gross intangible assets and accumulated amortization.
Amortization expense relating to intangible assets was $774 million, $875 million, and $642 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, respectively.
Expected amortization expense of definite-lived intangible assets held as of December 31, 2022 was as follows (in millions):

2023 | $ | 463 
2024 | 444 | 
2025 | 314 | 
2026 | 235 | 
2027 | 152 | 
Thereafter | 236 | 
 | $ | 1,844

Note 10. Commitments and contingencies 
Commitments
We have content licensing agreements with future fixed or minimum guaranteed commitments of $12.3 billion as of December 31, 2022, of which the majority will be paid over seven years commencing in 2023.

Alphabet Inc.

Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, including to facilitate transactions in our services and products and corporate activities, we indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network partners, distribution partners, customers of Google Cloud offerings, lessors, and service providers with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.
It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 
As of December 31, 2022, we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible. 
Legal Matters
We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred, and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. We evaluate developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments as appropriate.
Certain outstanding matters include speculative, substantial or indeterminate monetary amounts. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood of there being a loss and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters, and we may be unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of losses. The outcomes of outstanding legal matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, and could, either individually or in aggregate, have a material adverse effect.
We expense legal fees in the period in which they are incurred.
Antitrust Investigations
On November 30, 2010, the EC's Directorate General for Competition opened an investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against us. 
On June 27, 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017) fine. On September 11, 2017, we appealed the EC decision to the General Court, and on September 27, 2017, we implemented product changes to bring shopping ads into compliance with the EC's decision. We recognized a charge of $2.7 billion for the fine in the second quarter of 2017. On November 10, 2021, the General Court rejected our appeal, and we subsequently filed an appeal with the European Court of Justice on January 20, 2022.
On July 18, 2018, the EC announced its decision that certain provisions in Google’s Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018) fine and directed the termination of the conduct at issue. On October 9, 2018, we appealed the EC decision, and on October 29, 2018, we implemented changes to certain of our Android distribution practices. On September 14, 2022, the General Court reduced the fine from €4.3 billion to €4.1 billion. We subsequently filed an appeal with the European Court of Justice. In 2018, we recognized a charge of $5.1 billion for the fine, which we reduced by $217 million in 2022.
On March 20, 2019, the EC announced its decision that certain contractual provisions in agreements that Google had with AdSense for Search partners infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a fine of €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019) and directed actions related to AdSense for Search partners' agreements, which we implemented prior to the decision. On June 4, 2019, we appealed the EC decision, which remains pending. We recognized a charge of $1.7 billion for the fine in the first quarter of 2019.
From time to time we are subject to formal and informal inquiries and investigations on various competition matters by regulatory authorities in the U.S., Europe, and other jurisdictions globally. For example: 

Alphabet Inc.

•In August 2019, we began receiving civil investigative demands from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) requesting information and documents relating to our prior antitrust investigations and certain aspects of our business. The DOJ and a number of state Attorneys General filed a lawsuit on October 20, 2020 alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws relating to Search and Search advertising. Further, in June 2022, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) and the United Kingdom's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) each opened an investigation into Search distribution practices.
•On December 16, 2020, a number of state Attorneys General filed an antitrust complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws as well as state deceptive trade laws relating to its advertising technology. Additionally, on January 24, 2023, the DOJ, along with a number of state Attorneys General, filed an antitrust complaint alleging that Google’s digital advertising technology products violate U.S. antitrust laws. The EC, the CMA, and the ACCC each opened a formal investigation into Google's advertising technology business practices on June 22, 2021, May 25, 2022, and June 29, 2022, respectively.
•On July 7, 2021, a number of state Attorneys General filed an antitrust complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that Google’s operation of Android and Google Play violated U.S. antitrust laws and state antitrust and consumer protection laws. In May 2022, the EC and the CMA each opened investigations into Google Play’s business practices. Korean regulators are investigating Google Play's billing practices, most recently opening a formal review in May 2022 of Google's compliance with the new app store billing regulations.
We believe these complaints are without merit and will defend ourselves vigorously. We continue to cooperate with federal and state regulators in the U.S., the EC, and other regulators around the world.
Patent and Intellectual Property Claims
We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe others' intellectual property rights. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services. As a result, we may have to change our business practices and develop non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. In addition, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) has increasingly become an important forum to litigate intellectual property disputes because an ultimate loss in an ITC action can result in a prohibition on importing infringing products into the U.S. Because the U.S. is an important market, a prohibition on importation could have an adverse effect on us, including preventing us from importing many important products into the U.S. or necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features of our products.
Furthermore, many of our agreements with our customers and partners require us to indemnify them against certain intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. In addition, our customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business.
Other 
We are subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. For example, we currently have a number of privacy investigations and lawsuits ongoing in multiple jurisdictions. We also periodically have data incidents that we report to relevant regulators as required by law. Such claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders could result in substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing monitoring and auditing obligations, changes to our products and services, alterations to our business models and operations, and collateral related civil litigation or other adverse consequences, all of which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
We have ongoing legal matters relating to Russia. For example, civil judgments that include compounding penalties have been imposed upon us in connection with disputes regarding the termination of accounts, including those of sanctioned parties. We do not believe these ongoing legal matters will have a material adverse effect.

Alphabet Inc.

Non-Income Taxes
We are under audit by various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to non-income tax matters. The subject matter of non-income tax audits primarily arises from disputes on the tax treatment and tax rate applied to the sale of our products and services in these jurisdictions and the tax treatment of certain employee benefits. We accrue non-income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and judicial process in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome may be materially different from our expectations.
For information regarding income tax contingencies see Note 14.
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity 
Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock
Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock.
Stock Split
On July 15, 2022, the company executed a 20-for-one stock split with a record date of July 1, 2022, effected in the form of a one-time special stock dividend on each share of the company's Class A, Class B, and Class C stock. All prior period references made to share or per share amounts in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and applicable disclosures have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the effects of the Stock Split. See Note 1 for further details. 
Share Repurchases
In April 2022, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $70.0 billion of its Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2022, $28.1 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases. 
The following table presents Class A and Class C shares repurchased and subsequently retired (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31, 2021 | Year Ended December 31, 2022
 | Shares | Amount | | Shares | | Amount
Class A share repurchases | 24 | $ | 3,399 | | | 61 | | $ | 6,719 
Class C share repurchases | 383 | 46,875 | | | 469 | | 52,577 | 
Total share repurchases | 407 | $ | 50,274 | | | 530 | | $ | 59,296

Class A and Class C shares are repurchased in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. Repurchases are executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
Note 12. Net Income Per Share
We compute net income per share of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares and the effect of potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist of restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. The computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A stock assumes the conversion of Class B stock, while the diluted net income per share of Class B stock does not assume the conversion of those shares.

Alphabet Inc.

The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, of the holders of our Class A, Class B, and Class C stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Furthermore, there are a number of safeguards built into our certificate of incorporation, as well as Delaware law, which preclude our Board of Directors from declaring or paying unequal per share dividends on our Class A, Class B, and Class C stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments to our certificate of incorporation which would have the effect of adversely altering the rights, powers, or preferences of a given class of stock must be approved by the class of stock adversely affected by the proposed amendment. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that before any such amendment may be put to a stockholder vote, it must be approved by the unanimous consent of our Board of Directors. As a result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based on the contractual participation rights of the Class A, Class B, and Class C stock as if the earnings for the year had been distributed. As the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated on a proportionate basis. 
In the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, the net income per share amounts are the same for Class A, Class B, and Class C stock because the holders of each class are entitled to equal per share dividends or distributions in liquidation in accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Alphabet Inc.
The following tables set forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock (in millions, except per share amounts):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 17,733 | | | $ | 2,732 | | $ | 19,804
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 5,996 | | | 924 | | | 6,696
Basic net income per share | $ | 2.96 | | | $ | 2.96 | | $ | 2.96 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 17,733 | | | $ | 2,732 | | $ | 19,804
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 2,732 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (180) | | | (25) | | | 180 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 20,285 | | | $ | 2,707 | | $ | 19,984
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 5,996 | | | 924 | | | 6,696
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A shares outstanding | 924 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 2 | | | 0 | | | 123 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 6,922 | | | 924 | | | 6,819
Diluted net income per share | $ | 2.93 | | | $ | 2.93 | | $ | 2.93 


Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 34,200 | | | $ | 5,174 | | $ | 36,659
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 6,006 | | | 909 | | | 6,438
Basic net income per share | $ | 5.69 | | | $ | 5.69 | | $ | 5.69 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 34,200 | | | $ | 5,174 | | $ | 36,659
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 5,174 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (581) | | | (77) | | | 581 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 38,793 | | | $ | 5,097 | | $ | 37,240
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 6,006 | | | 909 | | | 6,438
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A shares outstanding | 909 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 0 | | | 0 | | | 200 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 6,915 | | | 909 | | | 6,638
Diluted net income per share | $ | 5.61 | | | $ | 5.61 | | $ | 5.61 


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 27,518 | | | $ | 4,072 | | $ | 28,382
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 5,994 | | | 887 | | | 6,182
Basic net income per share | $ | 4.59 | | | $ | 4.59 | | $ | 4.59 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 27,518 | | | $ | 4,072 | | $ | 28,382
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 4,072 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (230) | | | (30) | | | 230 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 31,360 | | | $ | 4,042 | | $ | 28,612
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 5,994 | | | 887 | | | 6,182
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A shares outstanding | 887 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 0 | | | 0 | | | 96 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 6,881 | | | 887 | | | 6,278
Diluted net income per share | $ | 4.56 | | | $ | 4.56 | | $ | 4.56 


Alphabet Inc.

Note 13. Compensation Plans 
Stock Plans
Our stock plans include the Alphabet Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan ("Alphabet 2021 Stock Plan") and Other Bet stock-based plans. Under our stock plans, RSUs and other types of awards may be granted. Under the Alphabet 2021 Stock Plan, an RSU award is an agreement to issue shares of our Class C stock at the time the award vests. RSUs generally vest over four years contingent upon employment on the vesting date.
As of December 31, 2022, there were 706 million shares of Class C stock reserved for future issuance under the Alphabet 2021 Stock Plan.
Stock-Based Compensation
For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, total stock-based compensation expense was $13.4 billion, $15.7 billion, and $19.5 billion, including amounts associated with awards we expect to settle in Alphabet stock of $12.8 billion, $15.0 billion, and $18.8 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, we recognized tax benefits on total stock-based compensation expense, which are reflected in the provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income, of $2.7 billion, $3.1 billion, and $3.9 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, tax benefit realized related to awards vested or exercised during the period was $3.6 billion, $5.9 billion, and $4.7 billion, respectively. These amounts do not include the indirect effects of stock-based awards, which primarily relate to the R&D tax credit.
Stock-Based Award Activities
The following table summarizes the activities for unvested Alphabet RSUs for the year ended December 31, 2022 (in millions, except per share amounts):

 | Unvested Restricted Stock Units
 | Number of Shares | Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Value
Unvested as of December 31, 2021 | 338 | | $ | 81.31 
Granted | 227 | | $ | 127.22
Vested | (213) | | $ | 87.53 
Forfeited/canceled | (28) | | $ | 97.10 
Unvested as of December 31, 2022 | 324 | | $ | 107.98

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021 was $70.40 and $97.46, respectively. Total fair value of RSUs, as of their respective vesting dates, during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, were $17.8 billion, $28.8 billion, and $23.9 billion, respectively.
As of December 31, 2022, there was $32.8 billion of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSUs. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years.
Note 14. Income Taxes 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes consisted of the following (in millions):
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Domestic operations | $ | 37,576 | | | $ | 77,016 | | $ | 61,307
Foreign operations | 10,506 | | | 13,718 | | | 10,021
Total | $ | 48,082 | | | $ | 90,734 | | $ | 71,328


Alphabet Inc.

Provision for income taxes consisted of the following (in millions):
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Current: | | | | | 
Federal and state | $ | 4,789 | | | $ | 10,126 | | $ | 17,120
Foreign | 1,687 | | | 2,692 | | | 2,434 
Total | 6,476 | | | 12,818 | | | 19,554 
Deferred: | | | | | 
Federal and state | 1,552 | | | 2,018 | | | (8,052)
Foreign | (215) | | | (135) | | | (146) 
Total | 1,337 | | | 1,883 | | | (8,198)
Provision for income taxes | $ | 7,813 | | | $ | 14,701 | | $ | 11,356

The reconciliation of federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate was as follows:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
U.S. federal statutory tax rate | 21.0 | % | | 21.0 | % | 21.0 | %
Foreign income taxed at different rates | (0.3) | | | 0.2 | | 3.0 | 
Foreign-derived intangible income deduction | (3.0) | | | (2.5) | | (5.4) | 
Stock-based compensation expense | (1.7) | | | (2.5) | | (1.2) | 
Federal research credit | (2.3) | | | (1.6) | | (2.2) | 
Deferred tax asset valuation allowance | 1.4 | | | 0.6 | | 0.9 | 
State and local income taxes | 1.1 | | | 1.0 | | 0.8 | 
Other | 0.0 | | | 0.0 | | (1.0) | 
Effective tax rate | 16.2 | % | | 16.2 | % | 15.9 | %

In 2022, there was an increase in the U.S. Foreign Derived Intangible Income tax deduction from the effects of capitalization and amortization of R&D expenses in 2022 as required by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 

Alphabet Inc.

Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Deferred tax assets: | | | 
Accruals and reserves not currently deductible | $ | 1,816 | | | $ | 1,956
Tax credits | 5,179 | | | 6,002 | 
Net operating losses | 1,790 | | | 2,557 | 
Operating leases | 2,503 | | | 2,711 | 
Capitalized research and development(1) | 1,843 | | | 10,381 | 
Other | 1,665 | | | 3,244 | 
Total deferred tax assets | 14,796 | | | 26,851 | 
Valuation allowance | (7,129) | | | (9,553) | 
Total deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance | 7,667 | | | 17,298 | 
Deferred tax liabilities: | | | 
Property and equipment, net | (5,237) | | | (6,607) | 
Net investment gains | (3,229) | | | (2,361) | 
Operating leases | (2,228) | | | (2,491) | 
Other | (946) | | | (1,092) | 
Total deferred tax liabilities | (11,640) | | | (12,551) | 
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) | $ | (3,973) | | | $ | 4,747

(1)As required by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, effective January 1, 2022, our research and development expenditures were capitalized and amortized which resulted in substantially higher cash taxes for 2022 with an equal amount of deferred tax benefit.
As of December 31, 2022, our federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $6.4 billion, $14.6 billion, and $1.8 billion respectively. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2023, foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2025 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2028. It is more likely than not that the majority of the net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized; therefore, we have recorded a valuation allowance against them. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various annual limitations under the tax laws of the different jurisdictions.
As of December 31, 2022, our Federal and California research and development credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $400 million and $5.8 billion, respectively. If not utilized, the Federal R&D credit will begin to expire in 2037 and the California R&D credit can be carried over indefinitely. We believe the majority of the federal tax credit and state tax credit is not likely to be realized.
As of December 31, 2022, our investment tax credit carryforwards for state income tax purposes were approximately $931 million and will begin to expire in 2025. We use the flow-through method of accounting for investment tax credits. We believe this tax credit is not likely to be realized.
As of December 31, 2022, we maintained a valuation allowance with respect to California deferred tax assets, certain federal net operating losses, certain state net operating losses and tax credits, net deferred tax assets relating to certain Other Bets, and certain foreign net operating losses that we believe are not likely to be realized. We continue to reassess the remaining valuation allowance quarterly, and if future evidence allows for a partial or full release of the valuation allowance, a tax benefit will be recorded accordingly. 

Alphabet Inc.

Uncertain Tax Positions
The following table summarizes the activity related to our gross unrecognized tax benefits (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Beginning gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 3,377 | | | $ | 3,837 | | $ | 5,158
Increases related to prior year tax positions | 372 | | | 529 | | | 253 
Decreases related to prior year tax positions | (557) | | | (263) | | | (437)
Decreases related to settlement with tax authorities | (45) | | | (329) | | | (140)
Increases related to current year tax positions | 690 | | | 1,384 | | | 2,221
Ending gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 3,837 | | | $ | 5,158 | | $ | 7,055

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $3.8 billion, $5.2 billion, and $7.1 billion as of December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022, respectively, of which $2.6 billion, $3.7 billion, and $5.3 billion, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate, respectively. 
As of December 31, 2021 and 2022, we accrued $270 million and $346 million in interest and penalties in provision for income taxes, respectively.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions. Our two major tax jurisdictions are the U.S. federal and Ireland. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS is currently examining our 2016 through 2018 tax returns. We have also received tax assessments in multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. We continue to defend any and all such claims as presented.
The tax years 2015 through 2021 remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits in various other jurisdictions that are not material to our financial statements.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the effect, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
We believe that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management's expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolutions occur. Although the timing of resolution, settlement, and closure of audits is not certain, it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits from certain U.S. federal, state, and non U.S. tax positions could decrease by approximately $1.8 billion in the next 12 months. Positions that may be resolved include various U.S. and non-U.S. matters.
Note 15. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas 
We report our segment results as Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets:
•Google Services includes products and services such as ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Google Services generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps and in-app purchases, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products such as YouTube Premium and YouTube TV.
•Google Cloud includes infrastructure and platform services, collaboration tools, and other services for enterprise customers. Google Cloud generates revenues from fees received for Google Cloud Platform services, Google Workspace communication and collaboration tools, and other enterprise services.
•Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of health technology and internet services. 
Revenues, certain costs, such as costs associated with content and traffic acquisition, certain engineering activities, and hardware, as well as certain operating expenses are directly attributable to our segments. Due to the integrated nature of Alphabet, other costs and expenses, such as technical infrastructure and office facilities, are managed centrally at a consolidated level. The associated costs, including depreciation and impairment, are allocated to operating segments as a service cost generally based on usage or headcount.

Alphabet Inc.

Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such as finance and legal, including certain fines and settlements, as well as costs associated with certain shared R&D activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related to revenue are included in corporate costs. 
As AI is critical to delivering our mission of bringing our breakthrough innovations into the real world, beginning in January 2023, we will update our segment reporting relating to certain of Alphabet's AI activities. DeepMind, previously reported within Other Bets, will be reported as part of Alphabet's corporate costs, reflecting its increasing collaboration with Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets. Prior periods will be recast to conform to the revised presentation.
Our operating segments are not evaluated using asset information.
The following table presents information about our segments (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 2022
Revenues: | | | | | 
Google Services | $ | 168,635 | | | $ | 237,529 | | $ | 253,528
Google Cloud | 13,059 | | | 19,206 | | | 26,280 
Other Bets | 657 | | | 753 | | | 1,068 
Hedging gains (losses) | 176 | | | 149 | | | 1,960 
Total revenues | $ | 182,527 | | | $ | 257,637 | | $ | 282,836
Operating income (loss): | | | | | 
Google Services | $ | 54,606 | | | $ | 91,855 | | $ | 86,572 
Google Cloud | (5,607) | | | (3,099) | | | (2,968)
Other Bets | (4,476) | | | (5,281) | | | (6,083)
Corporate costs, unallocated | (3,299) | | | (4,761) | | | (2,679)
Total income from operations | $ | 41,224 | | | $ | 78,714 | | $ | 74,842 

For revenues by geography see Note 2.
The following table presents long-lived assets by geographic area, which includes property and equipment, net and operating lease assets (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022
Long-lived assets: | | | 
United States | $ | 80,207 | | | $ | 93,565 
International | 30,351 | | | 33,484 | 
Total long-lived assets | $ | 110,558 | | | $ | 127,049

Note 16. Subsequent Event 
In January 2023, we announced a reduction of our workforce of approximately 12,000 roles. We expect to incur employee severance and related charges of $1.9 billion to $2.3 billion, the majority of which will be recognized in the first quarter of 2023.
In addition, we are taking actions to optimize our global office space. As a result we expect to incur exit costs relating to office space reductions of approximately $0.5 billion in the first quarter of 2023. We may incur additional charges in the future as we further evaluate our real estate needs.
Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2022, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed at a reasonable assurance level and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2022 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2022. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with our Audit and Compliance Committee. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs.
ITEM 9B.OTHER INFORMATION
As previously disclosed, Google LLC, a subsidiary of Alphabet, filed notifications with the Russian Federal Security Service as required pursuant to Russian encryption product import controls for the purpose of enabling the import of certain software in Russia. The information provided pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act in Part II, Item 5 of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2022 is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS
Not applicable.

Alphabet Inc.

PART III
ITEM 10.DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement for the 2023 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 (2023 Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports” in the 2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 11.EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the 2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the 2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 13.CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Director Independence” in the 2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 14.PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in the 2023 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Alphabet Inc.

PART IV
ITEM 15.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
We have filed the following documents as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
1. Consolidated Financial Statements

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 44
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 

2. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
The table below details the activity of the allowance for credit losses and sales credits for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2021, and 2022 (in millions):

 | Balance atBeginning of Year | | Additions | Usage | | Balance atEnd of Year
Year ended December 31, 2020 | $ | 753 | | $ | 2,013 | | $ | (1,422) | $ | 1,344
Year ended December 31, 2021 | $ | 1,344 | | $ | 2,092 | | $ | (2,047) | $ | 1,389
Year ended December 31, 2022 | $ | 1,389 | | $ | 2,125 | | $ | (2,301) | $ | 1,213


Note: | Additions to the allowance for credit losses are charged to expense. Additions to the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues.

All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or the required information is otherwise included.
3. Exhibits
ExhibitNumber | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | Date 
2.01 | | Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 2, 2015, by and among Google Inc., the Registrant and Maple Technologies Inc. | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
3.01 | | Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | June 3, 2022 
3.02 | | Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, dated October 19, 2022 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 25, 2022
4.01 | | Specimen Class A Common Stock certificate | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.02 | | Specimen Class C Capital Stock certificate | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.03 | | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.04 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Larry Page and certain of his affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.05 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Sergey Brin and certain of his affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.06 | | Joinder Agreement, dated December 31, 2021, among the Registrant, Sergey Brin and certain of his affiliates | Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-37580) | February 2, 2022


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | Date 
4.07 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Eric E. Schmidt and certain of its affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.08 | | Class C Undertaking, dated October 2, 2015, executed by the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.09 | | Indenture, dated February 12, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209510) | February 12, 2016
4.10 | | Registrant Registration Rights Agreement dated December 14, 2015 | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209518) | February 12, 2016
4.11 | | First Supplemental Indenture, dated April 27, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | April 27, 2016 
4.12 | | Form of the Registrant’s 3.375% Notes due 2024 (included in Exhibit 4.11) | | 
4.13 | | Form of the Registrant’s 1.998% Note due 2026 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 9, 2016 
4.14 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 0.450% notes due 2025 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.15 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 0.800% notes due 2027 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.16 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 1.100% notes due 2030 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.17 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 1.900% notes due 2040 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.18 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 2.050% notes due 2050 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.19 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 2.250% notes due 2060 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.20 | * | Description of Registrant’s Securities | | 
10.01 | u | Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between the Registrant, its affiliates and its directors and officers | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.02 | u | Letter Agreement dated July 11, 2022, between R. Martin Chávez and Alphabet Inc. | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | July 14, 2022 
10.03 | u | Compensation Plan Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.04 | u | Director Arrangements Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.05 | u | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.06 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan, as amended | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-50726) | June 7, 2011 
10.06.1 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Form of Google Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | March 30, 2005 
10.07 | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | June 5, 2020 
10.07.1 | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 001-37580) | February 4, 2020 


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date 
10.08 | u | | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (file No. 001-37580) | June 3, 2022 
10.08.1 | u | | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (file No. 001-37580) | July 28, 2021 
10.08.2 | u | | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet 2022 Non-CEO Performance Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 001-37580) | February 4, 2020
10.08.3 | u | * | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet 2022 CEO Performance Stock Unit Agreement | | 
10.09 | u | * | Alphabet Inc. Company Bonus Plan, as amended | | 
21.01 | * | | Subsidiaries of the Registrant | | 
23.01 | * | | Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | | 
24.01 | * | | Power of Attorney (incorporated by reference to the signature page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) | | 
31.01 | * | | Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
31.02 | * | | Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
32.01 | ‡ | | Certifications of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
101.INS | * | | Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document | | 
101.SCH | * | | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document | | 
101.CAL | * | | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document | | 
101.DEF | * | | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document | | 
101.LAB | * | | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document | | 
101.PRE | * | | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document | | 
104 | | | Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document and contained in Exhibit 101) | | 

_________________
u | Indicates management compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement.
* | Filed herewith. 
‡ | Furnished herewith. 


Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 16.FORM 10-K SUMMARY
None.

Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 1.BUSINESS
Overview
As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history, inspiring us to tackle big problems and invest in moonshots like artificial intelligence (AI) research and quantum computing. We continue this work under the leadership of Sundar Pichai, who has served as CEO of Google since 2015 and as CEO of Alphabet since 2019. 
Alphabet is a collection of businesses — the largest of which is Google. We report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud; we also report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Other Bets include earlier stage technologies that are further afield from our core Google business. We take a long-term view and manage the portfolio of Other Bets with the discipline and rigor needed to deliver long-term returns. Alphabet's structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence. 
Access and technology for everyone
The Internet is one of the world’s most powerful equalizers; it propels ideas, people and businesses large and small. Our mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful is as relevant today as it was when we were founded in 1998. Since then, we have evolved from a company that helps people find answers to a company that also helps people get things done. 
We are focused on building an even more helpful Google for everyone, and we aspire to give everyone the tools they need to increase their knowledge, health, happiness, and success. Every year, there are trillions of searches on Google, and 15% of the searches we see every day are new. We continue to invest deeply in AI and other technologies to ensure the most helpful search experience possible. YouTube provides people with entertainment, information, and opportunities to learn something new. And Google Assistant offers the best way to get things done seamlessly across different devices, providing intelligent help throughout a person's day, no matter where they are.
We are continually innovating and building new product features that will help our users, partners, customers, and communities. We have invested more than $100 billion in R&D over the last five years. In addition, with the onset of 

Alphabet Inc.

the pandemic, we have focused in particular on features that help people in their daily lives and that support businesses working to serve their customers. For example, we have added live busyness trends in Google Maps that help users instantly spot when a neighborhood or part of town is near or at its busiest. We have also helped businesses navigate uncertainty during an uneven economic recovery, and we have worked to address the complex challenge of distributing critical information about COVID-19 vaccines to billions of people around the world. Importantly, we have made authoritative content a key focus area across both Google Search and YouTube to help users find trusted public health information.
Other Bets also remain focused on innovation through technology that can positively affect people's lives. For instance, Waymo is working toward our goal of making transportation safer and easier for everyone and Verily is developing tools and platforms to improve health outcomes.
Moonshots
Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. We continue to look toward the future and to invest for the long term within each of our segments. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in, as they are the key to our long-term success.
The power of AI
Across the company, investments in AI and machine learning are increasingly driving many of our latest innovations and have enabled us to build products that are smarter and more helpful. For example, in May of 2021, we introduced Multitask Unified Model — or MUM — which has the potential to transform how Google helps with complex tasks. MUM is trained across 75 different languages, which means that it can learn from sources written in one language and help bring that information to people in another. It is also multimodal, so it understands information across text and images and, in the future, can expand to more modalities like video and audio. We are currently experimenting with MUM’s capabilities to make searching more natural and intuitive and even enable entirely new ways to search.
DeepMind also made a significant AI-powered breakthrough, solving a 50-year-old protein folding challenge, which will help the world better understand one of life’s fundamental building blocks, and will enable researchers to tackle new and difficult problems, from fighting diseases to environmental sustainability. DeepMind has since shared its new AlphaFold protein structure database, which doubled the number of high-accuracy human protein structures available to researchers.
Google
For reporting purposes, Google comprises two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud.
Google Services
Serving our users
We have always been a company committed to building helpful products that can improve the lives of millions of people. Our product innovations have made our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google Services' core products and platforms include ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google Play, Search, and YouTube, each with broad and growing adoption by users around the world.
Our products and services have come a long way since the company was founded more than two decades ago. Rather than the ten blue links in our early search results, users can now get direct answers to their questions using their computer, mobile device, or their own voice, making it quicker, easier and more natural to find what they are looking for. 
This drive to make information more accessible and helpful has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content both on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. With the continued adoption of mobile, people are consuming more digital content by watching more videos, playing more games, listening to more music, reading more books, and using more apps than ever before. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to find great digital content.
Fueling all of these great digital experiences are extraordinary platforms and hardware. That is why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, and Chrome operating system, as 

Alphabet Inc.

well as growing our family of hardware devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful and make people's lives easier by combining the best of our AI, software and hardware. This potential is reflected in our latest generation of hardware products such as Pixel 5a 5G and Pixel 6 phones, the Fitbit Charge 5, Chromecast with Google TV, and the new Google Nest Cams and Nest Doorbell. Creating products that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long run.
The key to building helpful products for users is our commitment to privacy, security, and user choice. We protect user privacy and security with products that are secure by default and private by design, and that keep users in control of their data. Our privacy-preserving technologies safeguard individual privacy and enhance data protection. As the Internet evolves, so does our approach to privacy and security. We continue to enhance our anti-malware features in Chrome and drive improvements such as auto-delete controls that automatically delete web and app searches after 18 months. And we continue to keep users and their passwords safe through advances like our built-in password manager. 
How we make money
We have built world-class advertising technologies for advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses through our wide range of products across devices and formats, and we aim to ensure positive user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. 
Google Services generates revenues primarily by delivering both performance and brand advertising that appears on Google Search & other properties, YouTube and Google Network partners' properties ("Google Network properties"). We continue to invest in both performance and brand advertising and seek to improve the measurability of advertising so advertisers understand the effectiveness of their campaigns. 
•Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. Our ads tools allow performance advertisers to create simple text-based ads.
•Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity for advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns. 
We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, including filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions of bad ads from our systems every year, and closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blocklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content.
We continue to look to the future and are making long-term investments that we expect to grow revenues beyond advertising, including revenues from Google Play, hardware, and YouTube non-advertising. 
•Google Play generates revenues from sales of apps and in-app purchases and digital content sold in the Google Play store.
•Hardware generates revenues from sales of Fitbit wearable devices, Google Nest home products, Pixel phones, and other devices.
•YouTube non-advertising generates revenues from YouTube Premium and YouTube TV subscriptions and other services.
Google Cloud
Google was a company built in the cloud. We continue to invest in infrastructure, security, data management, analytics, and AI. We see significant opportunity in helping businesses utilize these strengths with features like data migration, modern development environments, and machine learning tools to provide enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace. Google Cloud Platform enables developers to build, test, and deploy applications on its highly scalable and reliable infrastructure. Google Workspace collaboration tools — which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Meet and more — are designed with real-time collaboration and machine intelligence to help people work smarter. Because more and more of today’s digital experiences are being built in the cloud, Google Cloud products help businesses of all sizes take advantage of the latest technology advances to operate more efficiently.
•Google Cloud Platform generates revenues from infrastructure, platform and other services.

Alphabet Inc.

•Google Workspace generates revenues from cloud-based collaboration tools for enterprises, such as Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar and Meet.
Our cloud services are generally provided on either a consumption or subscription basis and may have contract terms longer than a year. 
Other Bets
Across Alphabet, we are also using technology to try to solve big problems that affect a wide variety of industries. Alphabet’s investment in the portfolio of Other Bets includes emerging businesses at various stages of development, ranging from those in the R&D phase to those that are in the beginning stages of commercialization, and our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the medium to long term. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of health technology and internet services.
Other Bets operate as independent companies and some of them have their own boards with independent members and outside investors. We are investing in the portfolio of Other Bets and being very deliberate about the focus, scale, and pace of investments.
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, including from:
•General purpose search engines and information services, such as Baidu, Microsoft's Bing, Naver, Seznam, Yahoo, and Yandex.
•Vertical search engines and e-commerce providers, such as Amazon and eBay (e-commerce), Booking's Kayak (travel queries), Microsoft's LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google.
•Social networks offered by ByteDance, Meta, Snap, and Twitter. Some users increasingly rely on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines.
•Other online advertising platforms and networks, such as Amazon, AppNexus, Criteo, and Meta, that compete for advertisers that use Google Ads, our primary auction-based advertising platform.
•Other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline.
•Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer hardware products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms, such as Amazon, Apple, and Microsoft.
•Digital assistant providers, such as Amazon and Apple.
•Providers of enterprise cloud services, such as Alibaba, Amazon, Microsoft, and Salesforce.
•Providers of digital video services, such as Amazon, Apple, AT&T, ByteDance, Disney, Hulu, Meta, and Netflix. 
•Other digital content and application platform providers, such as Amazon and Apple.
•Providers of workspace connectivity and productivity products, such as Meta, Microsoft, Salesforce, and Zoom.
Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to develop and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace across our businesses. Specifically, for advertising, competing successfully depends on attracting and retaining:
•users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely on the basis of the relevance of our advertising, as well as the general usefulness, security, and availability of our products and services;
•advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels; and
•content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.
For additional information about competition, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Alphabet Inc.

Ongoing Commitment to Sustainability
We believe that every business has the opportunity and obligation to protect our planet. Sustainability is one of our core values at Google, and we strive to build sustainability into everything we do. We have been a leader on sustainability and climate change since Google’s founding over 20 years ago. These are some of our key achievements over the past two decades:
•In 2007, we became the first major company to be carbon neutral for our operations.
•In 2017, we became the first major company to match 100% of our annual electricity use with renewable energy, which we have achieved for four consecutive years.
•In 2020, we issued $5.75 billion in sustainability bonds—the largest sustainability or green bond issuance by any company in history at the time. The net proceeds from the issuance are used to fund environmentally and socially responsible projects in the following eight areas: energy efficiency, clean energy, green buildings, clean transportation, circular economy and design, affordable housing, commitment to racial equity, and support for small businesses and COVID-19 crisis response. As of December 31, 2020, we have allocated $3.47 billion of the net proceeds, as outlined in our Sustainability Bond Impact Report published in 2021. 
•Also in 2020, we compensated for our legacy carbon footprint, making Google the first major company to be carbon neutral for its entire operating history.
Our sustainability strategy is focused on three key pillars: accelerating the transition to carbon-free energy and a circular economy, empowering everyone with technology, and benefiting the people and places where we operate.
To accelerate the transition to a carbon-free economy, in 2020, we launched our third decade of climate action, and we are now working toward a new set of ambitious goals. By 2030, we aim to:
•achieve net-zero emissions across all of our operations and value chain;
•become the first major company to run on carbon-free energy 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year;
•enable 5 gigawatts of new carbon-free energy through investments in our key manufacturing regions; and
•help more than 500 cities and local governments reduce an aggregate of 1 gigaton of carbon emissions annually.
To accelerate the transition to a circular economy, we are working to maximize the reuse of finite resources across our operations, products, and supply chains and to enable others to do the same. We are also working to empower everyone with technology by committing to help 1 billion people make more sustainable choices by the end of 2022 through our core products.
To benefit the people and places where we operate, we have set goals to replenish more water than we consume by 2030 and to support water security in communities where we operate. We will focus on three areas: enhancing our stewardship of water resources across Google office campuses and data centers; replenishing our water use and improving watershed health and ecosystems in water-stressed communities; and sharing technology and tools that help everyone predict, prevent, and recover from water stress.
We remain steadfast in our commitment to sustainability, and we will continue to lead and encourage others to join us in improving the health of our planet. We are proud of what we have achieved so far, and we are energized to help move the world closer to a more sustainable and carbon-free future for all.
More information on our approach to sustainability can be found in our annual sustainability reports, including Google’s Environmental Report and Alphabet’s 2021 Sustainability Bond Impact Report, which outlines the allocation of our net proceeds from our sustainability bonds. The contents of our sustainability reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. For additional information about risks and uncertainties applicable to our commitments to attain certain sustainability goals, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Culture and Workforce
We are a company of curious, talented, and passionate people. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex challenges in technology and society. 
Our people are critical for our continued success, so we work hard to create an environment where employees can have fulfilling careers, and be happy, healthy, and productive. We offer industry-leading benefits and programs to take care of the diverse needs of our employees and their families, including opportunities for career growth and 

Alphabet Inc.

development, resources to support their financial health, and access to excellent healthcare choices. Our competitive compensation programs help us to attract and retain top candidates, and we will continue to invest in recruiting talented people to technical and non-technical roles, and rewarding them well. We provide a variety of high quality training and support to our managers to build and strengthen their capabilities-–ranging from courses for new managers, to learning resources that help them provide feedback and manage performance, to coaching and individual support.
At Alphabet, we are committed to making diversity, equity, and inclusion part of everything we do and to growing a workforce that is representative of the users we serve. More information on Google’s approach to diversity can be found in our annual diversity reports, available publicly at diversity.google. The contents of our diversity reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC.
 As of December 31, 2021, Alphabet had 156,500 employees. We have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, and we are committed to supporting protected labor rights, maintaining an open culture and listening to all employees. Supporting healthy and open dialogue is central to how we work, and we communicate information about the company through multiple internal channels to our employees. 
When necessary, we contract with businesses around the world to provide specialized services where we do not have appropriate in-house expertise or resources, often in fields that require specialized training like cafe operations, content moderation, customer support, and physical security. We also contract with temporary staffing agencies when we need to cover short-term leaves, when we have spikes in business needs, or when we need to quickly incubate special projects. We choose our partners and staffing agencies carefully, and review their compliance with Google’s Supplier Code of Conduct. We continually make improvements to promote a respectful and positive working environment for everyone — employees, vendors, and temporary staff alike.
Government Regulation
We are subject to numerous United States (U.S.) federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. Like other companies in the technology industry, we face heightened scrutiny from both U.S. and foreign governments with respect to our compliance with laws and regulations. Many of these laws and regulations are evolving and their applicability and scope, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain.
Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and could, individually or in the aggregate, increase our cost of doing business, make our products and services less useful, limit our ability to pursue certain business models, cause us to change our business practices, affect our competitive position relative to our peers, and/or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
For additional information about government regulation applicable to our business, see Risk Factors in Item 1A, Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect in Part II, Item 7, and Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Intellectual Property
We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties. For additional information, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Available Information
Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments to these reports, are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC.
We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance and other items that may be material or of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. We also share Google news and product updates on Google's Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, that may be material or of interest to our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance 

Alphabet Inc.

guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The contents of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results, and affect the trading price of our Class A and Class C stock.
Risks Specific to our Company
We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending by advertisers, a loss of partners, or new and existing technologies that block ads online and/or affect our ability to customize ads could harm our business. 
We generated more than 80% of total revenues from the display of ads online in 2021. Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content providers can terminate their contracts with us at any time. These partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. Changes to our advertising policies and data privacy practices, as well as changes to other companies’ advertising and/or data privacy practices have in the past, and may in the future, affect the advertising that we are able to provide, which could harm our business. In addition, technologies have been developed that make customized ads more difficult or that block the display of ads altogether and some providers of online services have integrated technologies that could potentially impair the availability and functionality of third-party digital advertising. Failing to provide superior value or deliver advertisements effectively and competitively could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions have affected, and may in the future affect, the demand for advertising, resulting in fluctuations in the amounts our advertisers spend on advertising, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.
We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, customers, and other partners, we may not remain competitive, which could harm our business and operating results. 
Our business environment is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our businesses face changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of rival products and services. To compete successfully, we must accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies in a timely manner. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services. We must continue to invest significant resources in R&D, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our technology and new and existing products and services.
We have many competitors in different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Some competitors have longer operating histories and well established relationships in various sectors. They can use their experience and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in R&D and in talent, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete aggressively for users, advertisers, customers, and content providers. Further, discrepancies in enforcement of existing laws may enable our lesser known competitors to aggressively interpret those laws without commensurate scrutiny, thereby affording them competitive advantages. Our competitors may also be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the need for products and services before us.
Our operating results may also suffer if our products and services are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. As technologies continue to develop, our competitors may be able to offer experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If our competitors are more successful than we are in providing compelling products and services or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers, our operating results could be harmed.
Our ongoing investment in new businesses, products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could divert management attention and harm our financial condition and operating results. 

Alphabet Inc.

We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The investments that we are making across Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets reflect our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. Our investments in Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets span a wide range of industries beyond online advertising. Such investments ultimately may not be commercially viable or may not result in an adequate return of capital and, in pursuing new strategies, we may incur unanticipated liabilities. These endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion of resources and management attention from current operations and, with respect to Other Bets, the use of alternative investment, governance, or compensation structures that may fail to adequately align incentives across the company or otherwise accomplish their objectives.
Within Google Services, we continue to invest heavily in hardware, including our smartphones, home devices, and wearables, which is a highly competitive market with frequent introduction of new products and services, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price and performance characteristics, and price and feature sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. There can be no assurance we will be able to provide hardware that competes effectively.
Within Google Cloud, we devote significant resources to develop and deploy our enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace. We are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services and hire talent, particularly to support and scale our salesforce. At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services. Pricing and delivery models are competitive and evolving, and we may not attain sufficient scale and profitability to achieve our business objectives.
Within Other Bets, we are investing significantly in the areas of health, life sciences, and transportation, among others. These investment areas face intense competition from large, experienced, and well-funded competitors and our offerings may not be able to compete effectively or to operate at sufficient levels of profitability.
In addition, new and evolving products and services, including those that use AI and machine learning, raise ethical, technological, legal, regulatory, and other challenges, which may negatively affect our brands and demand for our products and services. Because all of these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future. 
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including increasing competition. Changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix and an increasing competition for advertising may also affect our advertising revenue growth rate. We may also experience a decline in our revenue growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels, if there is a decrease in the rate of adoption of our products, services, and technologies, or due to deceleration or decline in demand for devices used to access our services, among other factors.
In addition, we may also experience downward pressure on our operating margin resulting from a variety of factors, such as the continued expansion of our business into new fields, including products and services such as hardware, Google Cloud, and subscription products, as well as significant investments in Other Bets, all of which may have margins lower than those we generate from advertising. We may also experience downward pressure on our operating margins from increasing regulations, increasing competition, and increased costs for many aspects of our business. Due to these factors and the evolving nature of our business, our historical revenue growth rate and historical operating margin may not be indicative of our future performance. For additional information, see Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brands as well as affect our ability to compete. 
Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services, and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. There is always the possibility that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable.

Alphabet Inc.

We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of such trade secrets and other sensitive information could be compromised, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word “Google” could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word “search.” Some courts have ruled that "Google" is a protectable trademark, but it is possible that other courts, particularly those outside of the U.S., may reach a different determination. If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word “Google” to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand.
Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results.
Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. 
Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products and services that better serve the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our brands have been, and may in the future be, negatively affected by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy and security issues and developments, and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to respond appropriately to the sharing of misinformation or objectionable content on our services and/or products or objectionable practices by advertisers, or otherwise to adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence in our brands.
Furthermore, failure to maintain and enhance equity in our brands may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our success will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, trustworthy, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a valuable role in a range of settings.
We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that could harm our financial condition, operating results, and prospects.
We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management, which could affect our ability to supply both our products and our internet-based services.
We rely on other companies to manufacture many of our finished products; to design certain of our components and parts; to participate in the distribution of our products and services; and to design, manufacture, or assemble certain components and parts in our technical infrastructure. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage these companies with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them.
We have experienced and/or may in the future experience supply shortages and/or price increases that could negatively affect our operations, driven by raw material, component or part availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, logistics capacity, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers, natural disasters or pandemics, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, heat waves, wildfires and resultant air quality effects and power shutoffs associated with wildfire prevention, and increased storm severity), and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. In addition, some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and products are available from only one or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms in the event of a supply chain disruption. In addition, a significant supply interruption that affects us or our vendors could delay critical data center upgrades or expansions and delay product availability.
We may enter into long-term contracts for materials and products that commit us to significant terms and conditions. We may be liable for materials and products that are not consumed due to market acceptance, technological change, obsolescences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because certain of our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and negatively affect our financial results. Furthermore, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect our supply.

Alphabet Inc.

Our products and services have had, and in the future may have, quality issues resulting from design, manufacturing, or operations. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products and services does not meet expectations or our products or services are defective, it could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
We require our suppliers and business partners to comply with laws and, where applicable, our company policies, such as the Google Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance, and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. Violations of law or unethical business practices could result in supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, harm to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. Their failure to procure necessary license rights to intellectual property could affect our ability to sell our products or services and expose us to litigation or financial claims. 
Interruption to, interference with, or failure of our complex information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, problems with the design or implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning system could harm our business and operations.
The availability of our products and services and fulfillment of our customer contracts depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage, interference, or interruption from modifications or upgrades, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or pandemics, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, heat waves, wildfires and resultant air quality effects and power shutoffs associated with wildfire prevention, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, ransomware attacks, computer denial of service attacks, phishing schemes, or other attempts to harm or access our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and, in some cases, to potential disruptions resulting from problems experienced by facility operators. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster or pandemic, closure of a facility, or other unanticipated problems affecting our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and have contained in the past, and may contain in the future, errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in or failure of our services or systems.
In addition, we rely extensively on information systems and technology to manage our business and summarize operating results. We are in the process of a multi-year implementation of a new ERP system, which is designed to accurately maintain our financial records, enhance the flow of financial information, improve data management, and provide timely information to our management team. As the phased implementation continues, we may experience delays, increased costs, and other difficulties. Failure to successfully design and implement the ERP system as planned could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the ERP system as planned or the ERP system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be negatively affected.
Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, our financial condition, and operating results.
Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues in 2021. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following:
•restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;
•import and export requirements, tariffs and other market access barriers that may prevent or impede us from offering products or providing services to a particular market, or that could limit our ability to source assemblies and finished products from a particular market, and may increase our operating costs;
•longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud;
•an evolving foreign policy landscape that may adversely affect our revenues and could subject us to new regulatory costs and challenges (including the transfer of personal data between the EU and the United Kingdom and new customer requirements), in addition to other adverse effects that we are unable to effectively anticipate;

Alphabet Inc.

•anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting certain payments to government officials, violations of which could result in civil and criminal penalties;
•uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent; and
•different employee/employer relationships, existence of works councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions.
Because we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we have faced, and will continue to face, exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could harm our financial condition and operating results.
Risks Related to our Industry
People access the Internet through a variety of platforms and devices that continue to evolve with the advancement of technology and user preferences. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our products and services developed for these interfaces, our business could be harmed.
People access the Internet through a growing variety of devices such as desktop computers, mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-activated speakers, wearables, automobiles, and television-streaming devices. Our products and services may be less popular on some interfaces. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not be available or may only be available with limited functionality for our users or our advertisers on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via voice-activated speakers, apps, social media or other platforms, which could harm our business. It is hard to predict the challenges we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to creating and supporting products and services across multiple platforms and devices. Failing to attract and retain a substantial number of new device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users, or failing to develop products and technologies that work well on new devices and platforms, could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results and ability to capture future business opportunities.
Data privacy and security concerns relating to our technology and our practices could damage our reputation, cause us to incur significant liability, and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. Software bugs or defects, security breaches, and attacks on our systems could result in the improper disclosure and use of user data and interference with our users’ and customers’ ability to use our products and services, harming our business operations and reputation. 
Concerns about, including the adequacy of, our practices with regard to the collection, use, governance, disclosure, or security of personal information or other data-privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our policies and practices may change over time as expectations and regulations regarding privacy and data change.
Our products and services involve the storage, handling, and transmission of proprietary and other sensitive information. Software bugs, theft, misuse, defects, vulnerabilities in our products and services, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss or improper use and disclosure of such information, which could result in litigation and other potential liability, including regulatory fines and penalties, as well as reputational harm. Additionally, our products incorporate highly technical and complex technologies, and thus our technologies and software have contained, and are likely in the future to contain, undetected errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, some errors in our software code only after we have released the code. Systems and control failures, security breaches, failure to comply with our privacy policies, and/or inadvertent disclosure of user data could result in government and legal exposure, seriously harm our reputation, brand, and business, and impair our ability to attract and retain users or customers. Such incidents have occurred in the past and may continue to occur due to the scale and nature of our products and services. While there is no guarantee that such incidents will not cause significant damage, we expect to continue to expend significant resources to maintain security protections that limit the effect of bugs, theft, misuse, and security vulnerabilities or breaches.
We experience cyber attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems on a regular basis. Cyber attacks continue to evolve in sophistication and volume, and inherently may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. We have seen, and will continue to see, industry-wide vulnerabilities, such as the Log4j vulnerability reported in December 2021, which could affect our or other parties’ systems. We expect to continue to experience such 

Alphabet Inc.

incidents or vulnerabilities in the future. Our efforts to address undesirable activity on our platform may also increase the risk of retaliatory attack. We may experience future security issues, whether due to employee error or malfeasance or system errors or vulnerabilities in our or other parties’ systems. While we may not determine some of these issues to be material at the time they occur and may remedy them quickly, there is no guarantee that these issues will not ultimately result in significant legal, financial, and reputational harm, including government inquiries and enforcement actions, litigation, and negative publicity. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, disable or degrade service provided by or otherwise sabotage systems change frequently and often are recognized only after being launched against a target, even taking all reasonable precautions, including those required by law, we have been unable in the past and may continue to be unable to anticipate or detect attacks or vulnerabilities or implement adequate preventative measures. 
Further, if any partners with whom we share user or other customer information fail to implement adequate data-security practices or fail to comply with our terms and policies or otherwise suffer a network or other security breach, our users’ information may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. If an actual or perceived breach of our or our business partners’ or service providers’ security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures would be harmed, we could lose users and customers, our trade secrets or those of our business partners may be compromised, and we may be exposed to significant legal and financial risks, including legal claims (which may include class-action litigation) and regulatory action, fines, and penalties. Any of the foregoing consequences could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation, and results of operations.
While we have dedicated significant resources to privacy and security incident response capabilities, including dedicated worldwide incident response teams, our response process, particularly during times of a natural disaster or pandemic, may not be adequate, may fail to accurately assess the severity of an incident, may not be fast enough to prevent or limit harm, or may fail to sufficiently remediate an incident. As a result, we may suffer significant legal, reputational, or financial exposure, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.
For additional information, see also our risk factor on privacy and data protection regulations under ‘Risks Related to Laws and Regulations’ below. 
Our ongoing investments in safety, security, and content review will likely continue to identify abuse of our platforms and misuse of user data. 
In addition to our efforts to prevent and mitigate cyber attacks, we are making significant investments in safety, security, and review efforts to combat misuse of our services and unauthorized access to user data by third parties, including investigation and review of platform applications that could access the information of users of our services. As a result of these efforts, we have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, incidents of unnecessary access to or misuse of user data or other undesirable activity by third parties. However, we may not have discovered, and may in the future not discover, all such incidents or activity, whether as a result of our data limitations, including our lack of visibility over our encrypted services, the scale of activity on our platform, or other factors, including factors outside of our control such as a natural disaster or pandemic, and we may learn of such incidents or activity via third parties. Such incidents and activities may include the use of user data or our systems in a manner inconsistent with our terms, contracts or policies, the existence of false or undesirable user accounts, election interference, improper ad purchases, activities that threaten people’s safety on- or off-line, or instances of spamming, scraping, or spreading disinformation. While we may not determine some of these incidents to be material at the time they occurred and we may remedy them quickly, there is no guarantee that these issues will not ultimately result in significant legal, financial, and reputational harm, including government inquiries and enforcement actions, litigation, and negative publicity.
We may also be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our policies or otherwise prevent or remediate any such incidents. Any of the foregoing developments may negatively affect user trust and engagement, harm our reputation and brands, require us to change our business practices in ways that harm our business operations and adversely affect our business and financial results. Any such developments may also subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result in monetary penalties and damages, divert management’s time and attention, and lead to enhanced regulatory oversight.
Problematic content on our platforms, including low-quality user-generated content, web spam, content farms, and other violations of our guidelines could affect the quality of our services, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. 
We, like others in the industry, face violations of our content guidelines across our platforms, including sophisticated attempts by bad actors to manipulate our hosting and advertising systems to fraudulently generate revenues, or to otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine user interest or intent. While we invest significantly in efforts to promote high-quality and relevant results and to detect and prevent low-quality content and 

Alphabet Inc.

invalid traffic, we have been unable and may continue to be unable to adequately detect and prevent all such abuses or promote uniformly high-quality content.
Many websites violate or attempt to violate our guidelines, including by seeking to inappropriately rank higher in search results than our search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. Such efforts have affected, and may continue to affect, the quality of content on our platforms and lead them to display false, misleading, or undesirable content. Although English-language web spam in our search results has been reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek inappropriate ways to improve their rankings. We continuously combat web spam in our search results, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We also continue to invest in and deploy proprietary technology to detect and prevent web spam on our platforms. We also face other challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes designed to detect and prevent abuse from low-quality websites. We also face other challenges on our platforms, including violations of our content guidelines involving incidents such as attempted election interference, activities that threaten the safety and/or well-being of our users on- or off-line, and the spreading of misinformation or disinformation.
If we fail to either detect and prevent an increase in problematic content or effectively promote high-quality content, it could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information or reduce use of our platforms, harming our financial condition or operating results. It may also subject us to litigation and regulatory action, which could result in monetary penalties and damages and divert management’s time and attention.
Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. 
Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings, or by providing our competitors preferential access. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms of discrimination by internet access providers; however, substantial uncertainty exists in the U.S. and elsewhere regarding such protections. For example, in 2018 the U.S. Federal Communications Commission repealed net neutrality rules, which could permit internet access providers to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. These could harm existing key relationships, including with our users, customers, advertisers, and/or content providers, and impair our ability to attract new ones; damage our reputation; and increase costs, thereby negatively affecting our business.
Risks Related to Laws, Regulations, and Policies
We face increased regulatory scrutiny as well as changes in regulatory conditions, laws, and policies governing a wide range of topics that may negatively affect our business. 
We and other companies in the technology industry face increased regulatory scrutiny, enforcement action, and other proceedings. For instance, the U.S. Department of Justice, joined by a number of state Attorneys General, filed an antitrust complaint against Google on October 20, 2020, alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws relating to Search and Search advertising. Similarly, on December 16, 2020, a number of state Attorneys General filed an antitrust complaint against Google in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws as well as state deceptive trade laws relating to its advertising technology. Various other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and around the world, including competition enforcers, consumer protection agencies, data protection authorities, grand juries, inter-agency consultative groups, and a range of other governmental bodies have and continue to review and in some cases challenge our products and services and their compliance with laws and regulations around the world. We continue to cooperate with these investigations and defend litigation where appropriate. Various laws, regulations, investigations, enforcement lawsuits, and regulatory actions have in the past, and may in the future, result in substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing auditing and monitoring obligations, changes to our products and services, alterations to our business models and operations, and collateral litigation, all of which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.

Alphabet Inc.

Changes in international and local social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies have in the past, and may in the future, increase our cost of doing business and limit our ability to pursue certain business models, offer products or services in certain jurisdictions, or cause us to change our business practices. We have in the past had to alter or stop offering certain products and services as a result of laws or regulations that made them unfeasible, and new laws or regulations could result in our having to terminate, alter, or withdraw products and services in the future. Additional costs of doing business, new limitations, or changes to our business model or practices could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
We are subject to regulations, laws, and policies that govern a wide range of topics, including those related to matters beyond our core products and services. For instance, new regulations, laws, policies, and international accords relating to environmental and social matters, including sustainability, climate change, human capital, and diversity, are being developed and formalized in Europe, the U.S., and elsewhere, which may entail specific, target-driven frameworks and/or disclosure requirements. We have implemented robust environmental and social programs, adopted reporting frameworks and principles, and announced a number of goals and initiatives, including those related to environmental sustainability and diversity. The implementation of these goals and initiatives may require considerable investments, and our goals, with all of their contingencies, dependencies, and in certain cases, reliance on third-party verification and/or performance, are complex and ambitious, and we cannot guarantee that we will achieve them. 
Additionally, there can be no assurance that our current programs, reporting frameworks, and principles will be in compliance with any new environmental and social laws and regulations that may be promulgated in the U.S. and elsewhere, and the costs of changing any of our current practices to comply with any new legal and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and elsewhere may be substantial. Furthermore, industry and market practices may further develop to become even more robust than what is required under any new laws and regulations, and we may have to expend significant efforts and resources to keep up with market trends and stay competitive among our peers.
A variety of new and existing laws and/or interpretations could harm our business. 
We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations, or new interpretations or applications of existing laws and regulations in a manner inconsistent with our practices, have made, and may continue to make, our products and services less useful, limit our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products and services in certain jurisdictions, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. These laws and regulations are evolving and involve matters central to our business, including, among others:
•Laws and regulations around the world focused on large technology platforms, including the Digital Markets Act in the European Union and proposed antitrust legislation on self-preferencing and mergers and acquisitions in the U.S., which may limit certain business practices, and in some cases, create the risk of significant penalties.
•Privacy laws, such as the GDPR, CCPA, CPRA, Virginia CDPA, and ColoPA (as defined and discussed further below).
•Data protection laws passed by many states within the U.S. and by certain countries regarding notification to data subjects and/or regulators when there is a security breach of personal data.
•Consumer protection laws, including EU’s New Deal for Consumers, which could result in monetary penalties and create a range of new compliance obligations. 
•New laws further restricting the collection, processing and/or sharing of advertising-related data. Copyright or similar laws around the world, including the EU Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market (EUCD) and EU member state transpositions. These and similar laws that have been adopted or proposed introduce new licensing regimes that could affect our ability to operate. The EUCD and similar laws could also increase the liability of some content-sharing services with respect to content uploaded by their users. Some of these laws, as well as follow-on administrative or judicial actions, have also created or may create a new property right in news publications that limits the ability of some online services to link to, interact with, or present such content. They may also require individual or collective compensation negotiations with news agencies and publishers for the use of such content, which may result in payment obligations that significantly exceed the value that such content provides to Google and its users, potentially harming our services, commercial operations, and business results.
•Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country.

Alphabet Inc.

•Various U.S. and international laws that govern the distribution of certain materials to children and regulate the ability of online services to collect information from minors, including the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 and the United Kingdom’s Age-Appropriate Design Code.
•Various laws with regard to content moderation and removal, and related disclosure obligations, such as the Network Enforcement Act in Germany and the European Union's pending Digital Services Act, which may affect our businesses and operations and may subject us to significant fines if such laws are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices or when we may not proactively discover such content due to the scale of third-party content and the limitations of existing technologies. Other countries, including Singapore, Australia, and the United Kingdom, have implemented or are considering similar legislation imposing penalties for failure to remove certain types of content.
•Various legislative, litigation, and regulatory activity regarding our Google Play billing policies and business model, which could result in monetary penalties, damages and/or prohibition.
•Various legislative and regulatory activity requiring disclosure of information about the operation of our services and algorithms, which may make it easier for websites to artificially promote low-quality, deceptive, or harmful content on services like Google Search and YouTube, potentially harming the quality of our services.
In addition, the applicability and scope of these laws, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain and could harm our business. For example:
•We rely on statutory safe harbors, as set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act in the U.S. and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, against liability for various linking, caching, and hosting activities. Any legislation or court rulings affecting these safe harbors may adversely affect us. There are legislative proposals in both the U.S. and EU that could reduce our safe harbor protection.
•Court decisions such as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) on May 13, 2014 on the ‘right to be forgotten,’ which allows individuals to demand that Google remove search results about them in certain instances, may limit the content we can show to our users and impose significant operational burdens.
The introduction of new businesses, products, services, and technologies, our activities in certain jurisdictions, or other actions we take have subjected us, and will likely continue to subject us, to additional laws and regulations. Our investment in a variety of new fields, such as healthcare and payment services, has expanded, and will continue to expand, the scope of regulations that apply to our business. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future. Any failure on our part to comply with laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.
We are subject to claims, suits, government investigations, other proceedings, and consent decrees that may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
We are subject to claims, suits, government investigations, other proceedings, and consent decrees involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Due to our manufacturing and sale of an expanded suite of products and services, including hardware as well as Google Cloud offerings, we also are subject to a variety of claims including product warranty, product liability, and consumer protection claims related to product defects, among other litigation. We may also be subject to claims involving health and safety, hazardous materials usage, other environmental effects, or service disruptions or failures.
Any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse effect on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, negative publicity and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. The resolution of one or more such proceedings has resulted in, and may in the future result in, additional substantial fines, penalties, injunctions, and other sanctions that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.
We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. 
Our products and services let users exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities. We also place advertisements displayed on other companies’ websites, and we offer third-party products, services, and/or content. The law relating to the liability of online service providers for others’ activities on their services is still somewhat unsettled around the world. Claims have been brought against us, and we 

Alphabet Inc.

expect will continue to be brought against us, for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright and trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, torts, fraud, or other legal theories based on the nature and content of information available on or via our services.
We may be subject to claims by virtue of our involvement in hosting, transmitting, marketing, branding, or providing access to content created by third parties. Defense of such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner.
Privacy and data protection regulations are complex and rapidly evolving areas. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Authorities around the world have adopted and are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection and limits on encryption of user data. Adverse legal rulings, legislation, or regulation have resulted in, and may continue to result in, fines and orders requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to provide services, harming our business operations. Complying with these evolving laws could result in substantial costs and harm the quality of our products and services, negatively affecting our business, and may be particularly challenging during certain times, such as a natural disaster or pandemic. Amongst others, we are and will be subject to the following laws and regulations: 
•The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services that we offer to EU users or customers, or the monitoring of their behavior in the EU. Ensuring compliance with the range of obligations created by the GDPR is an ongoing commitment that involves substantial costs. Despite our efforts, governmental authorities or others have asserted and may continue to assert that our business practices fail to comply with its requirements. If our operations are found to violate the GDPR requirements, we may incur substantial fines, have to change our business practices, and face reputational harm, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Serious breaches of the GDPR can result in administrative fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide revenues. Fines of up to 2% of annual worldwide revenues can be levied for other specified violations.
•Various state privacy laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA), which came into effect in January of 2020; the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which will go into effect in 2023; the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act (Virginia CDPA), which will go into effect in 2023; and the Colorado Privacy Act (ColoPA), which will go into effect in 2023; all of which give new data privacy rights to their respective residents (including, in California, a private right of action in the event of a data breach resulting from our failure to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices) and impose significant obligations on controllers and processors of consumer data.
•SB-327 in California, which regulates the security of data in connection with internet connected devices.
Further, we are subject to evolving laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances we can transfer, process and/or receive personal data. The EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks that previously allowed U.S. companies that self-certify to the U.S. Department of Commerce and publicly commit to comply with specified requirements to import personal data from the EU and Switzerland have been invalidated by the CJEU. The CJEU upheld Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) as a valid transfer mechanism, provided they meet certain requirements. On June 4, 2021, the European Commission published new SCCs for this purpose, and we may have to adapt our existing contractual arrangements to meet these new requirements. The validity of data transfer mechanisms remains subject to legal, regulatory, and political developments in both Europe and the U.S., such as recent recommendations from the European Data Protection Board, decisions from supervisory authorities, recent proposals for reform of the data transfer mechanisms for transfers of personal data outside the United Kingdom, and potential invalidation of other data transfer mechanisms, which, together with increased enforcement action from supervisory authorities in relation to cross-border transfers of personal data, could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to process and transfer personal data outside of the European Economic Area and/or the United Kingdom.
These laws and regulations are evolving and subject to interpretation, including developments which create some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or harm the operations of our products and services in ways that harm our business. For example, in the EU, several supervisory authorities have issued new guidance concerning the ePrivacy Directive’s requirements regarding the use of cookies and similar technologies, including limitations on the use of data across messaging products and specific requirements for enabling users to accept or reject cookies, and have in some cases brought (and may seek to bring in the future) enforcement action in relation to those requirements. In the U.S., certain types of cookies may be deemed sales of personal information 

Alphabet Inc.

within the CCPA and other state laws, such that certain disclosure requirements and limitations apply to the use of such cookies. In addition, some countries are considering or have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services and carries the potential of service interruptions in those countries.
We face, and may continue to face, intellectual property and other claims that could be costly to defend, result in significant damage awards or other costs (including indemnification awards), and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. 
We, like other internet, technology and media companies, are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent-holding companies may frequently seek to generate income from patents they have obtained by bringing claims against us. As we have grown, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies.
We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Other parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease-and-desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell our products or services in the U.S. or elsewhere if our products or services or those of our customers or suppliers are found to infringe the intellectual property subject to the claims. Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services. They may also cause us to change our business practices and require development of non-infringing products, services, or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business.
Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to defend against certain intellectual property infringement claims and in some cases indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could result in increased costs for defending such claims or significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers arising from intellectual property infringement claims. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims. Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. To the extent such claims are successful, they may harm our business, including our product and service offerings, financial condition, or operating results.
Risks Related to Ownership of our Stock
We cannot guarantee that any share repurchase program will be fully consummated or will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of our stock prices and could diminish our cash reserves. 
We engage in share repurchases of our Class A and Class C stock from time to time in accordance with authorizations from the Board of Directors of Alphabet. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date and does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. Further, our share repurchases could affect our share trading prices, increase their volatility, reduce our cash reserves and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading prices of our stock.
The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. 
Our Class B stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A stock has one vote per share, and our Class C stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2021, Larry Page and Sergey Brin beneficially owned approximately 85.9% of our outstanding Class B stock, which represented approximately 51.4% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Through their stock ownership, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could continue Larry and Sergey’s current relative voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. The share repurchases made pursuant to our repurchase program may also 

Alphabet Inc.

affect Larry and Sergey’s relative voting power. This concentrated control limits or severely restricts other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial, which could reduce the market price of our Class A stock and our Class C stock.
Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.
Provisions in Alphabet’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:
•Our certificate of incorporation provides for a tri-class capital stock structure. As a result of this structure, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, or other change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. 
•Our Board of Directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director.
•Our stockholders may not act by written consent, which makes it difficult to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting.
•Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates.
•Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company.
•Our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock, which makes it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.
As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the Board of Directors has approved the transaction. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.
General Risks
The continuing effects of COVID-19 are highly unpredictable and could be significant, and may have an adverse effect on our business, operations and our future financial performance.
Since COVID-19 was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization, our business, operations and financial performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by the macroeconomic impacts resulting from the efforts to control the spread of COVID-19. As a result of the scale of the ongoing pandemic, including the introduction of new variants of COVID-19 and vaccination and other efforts to control the spread, our revenue growth rate and expenses as a percentage of our revenues in future periods may differ significantly from our historical rates, and our future operating results may fall below expectations. Additionally, we may experience a significant and prolonged shift in user behavior such as a shift in interests to less commercial topics.
As a result of the pandemic, our workforce shifted to operating in a primarily remote working environment, which continues to create inherent productivity, connectivity, and oversight challenges. The effects of the ongoing pandemic are dynamic and uneven. As we prepare to return our workforce in more locations back to the office, we may experience increased costs and/or disruption as we experiment with hybrid work models, in addition to potential effects on our ability to operate effectively and maintain our corporate culture.
Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations.
Our operating results have fluctuated, and may in the future fluctuate, as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control, including the cyclicality and seasonality in our business and geopolitical events. As a result, comparing our operating results (including our expenses as a percentage of our revenues) on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and our past results should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. Consequently, our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations.

Alphabet Inc.

Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and divestitures are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and operating results. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of such potential strategic transactions, which could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Some of the areas where we face risks include:
•diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic transactions;
•failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of a transaction;
•failure to successfully integrate and further develop the acquired business or technology;
•implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company;
•integration of the acquired company’s accounting, human resource (including cultural integration and retention of employees), and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions;
•transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms;
•in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries;
•liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, data privacy and security issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, warranty claims, product liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; and
•litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties.
Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.
Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which may harm our financial condition or operating results.
If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. 
Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. For instance, Sundar Pichai is critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries and plays an important role in the development of our technology, maintaining our culture, and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could seriously harm our business.
We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively. 
Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our ability to compete effectively and our future success depends on our continuing to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Restrictive immigration policy and regulatory changes may also affect our ability to hire, mobilize, or retain some of our global talent.

Alphabet Inc.

In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows and evolves, we may need to implement more complex organizational management structures or adapt our corporate culture and work environments to ever-changing circumstances, such as during times of a natural disaster or pandemic, and these changes could affect our ability to compete effectively or have an adverse effect on our corporate culture.
We are exposed to fluctuations in the fair values of our investments and, in some instances, our financial statements incorporate valuation methodologies that are subjective in nature resulting in fluctuations over time. 
The fair value of our investments may in the future be, and certain investments have been in the past, negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, performance and financial results of the underlying entities, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates, including changes that may result from the implementation of new benchmark rates, the effect of new or changing regulations, the stock market in general, or other factors. 
We measure certain of our non-marketable equity and debt securities, certain other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled in the stock of certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. The determination of fair value involves use of appropriate valuation methods and certain unobservable inputs, requires management judgment and estimation, and may change over time. We adjust the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities to fair value for observable transactions of identical or similar investments of the same issuer or for impairments. All gains and losses on non-marketable equity securities, are recognized in other income (expense), which increases the volatility of our other income (expense). The unrealized gains and losses we record from fair value remeasurements of our non-marketable equity securities in any particular period may differ significantly from the gains or losses we ultimately experience on such investments.
As a result of these factors, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents, as well as our marketable and non-marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.
We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. 
Our future income taxes could be negatively affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, decreases in our stock price for shares paid as employee compensation, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, the application of different provisions of tax laws or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles (including changes in the interpretation of existing laws), as well as certain discrete items.
In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions, including in Europe, on various tax-related assertions, such as transfer-pricing adjustments or permanent-establishment claims. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition and could require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. It may also subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, resulting in the diversion of management’s time and attention. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.
Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws, or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant changes in ways that impair our financial results. Various jurisdictions around the world have enacted or are considering digital services taxes, which could lead to inconsistent and potentially overlapping international tax regimes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) continues to advance proposals relating to its initiative for modernizing international tax rules, with the goal of having different countries implement a modernized and aligned international tax framework, but there can be no guarantee that this will occur.
In addition, in response to significant market volatility and disruptions to business operations resulting from the global spread of COVID-19, legislatures and taxing authorities in many jurisdictions in which we operate may propose changes to their tax rules. These changes could include modifications that have temporary effect, and more permanent 

Alphabet Inc.

changes. The effect of these potential new rules on us, our long-term tax planning, and our effective tax rate could be material.
The trading price for our Class A stock and non-voting Class C stock may continue to be volatile.
The trading price of our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. In addition to the factors discussed in this report, the trading price of our Class A stock and Class C stock have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate widely, in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others, the activities of our peers and changes in broader economic and political conditions around the world. These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A stock and our Class C stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.
ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
Not applicable.
ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We also own and lease office and building space in the surrounding areas near our headquarters. In addition, we own and lease office/building space and R&D sites around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We own and operate data centers in the U.S., Europe, South America, and Asia. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.
ITEM 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, see Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.

Alphabet Inc.

PART II
ITEM 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
As of October 2, 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since August 19, 2004 and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. Our Class B common stock is neither listed nor traded. Our Class C capital stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since April 3, 2014.
Holders of Record
As of December 31, 2021, there were approximately 4,907 and 1,733 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock, respectively. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of December 31, 2021, there were approximately 64 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock.
Dividend Policy
We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long-term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace, and form of capital return to stockholders.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2021:

Period | Total Number of Class A Shares Purchased (in thousands) (1) | Total Number of Class C Shares Purchased (in thousands) (1) | | Average Price Paid per Class A Share (2) | Average Price Paid per Class C Share (2) | | Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(in thousands) (1) | Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (in millions)
October 1 - 31 | 126 | | 1,445 | | $ | 2,812.76 | | $ | 2,794.72 | 1,571 | $ | 26,450
November 1 - 30 | 289 | | 1,393 | | $ | 2,943.97 | | $ | 2,956.73 | 1,682 | $ | 21,479
December 1 - 31 | 250 | | 1,169 | | $ | 2,880.79 | | $ | 2,898.56 | 1,419 | $ | 17,371
Total | 665 | | 4,007 | | | | | 4,672 | 

(1)    The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases.
(2)    Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases.

Alphabet Inc.

Stock Performance Graphs
The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class A's cumulative 5-year total stockholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2021. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE 5-YEAR TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS A COMMON STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2016 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2022 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.

Alphabet Inc.

The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class C's cumulative 5-year total stockholder return on capital stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our Class C capital stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2021. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE 5-YEAR TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS C CAPITAL STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2016 in stock or in index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2022 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.
ITEM 6.[Reserved]

Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with “Note about Forward-Looking Statements,” Part I, Item 1 "Business," Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors," and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
We have omitted discussion of 2019 results where it would be redundant to the discussion previously included in Item 7 of our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Understanding Alphabet’s Financial Results
Alphabet is a collection of businesses — the largest of which is Google. We report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud; we also report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Other Bets include earlier stage technologies that are further afield from our core Google business. For further details on our segments, see Part I, Item 1 “Business” and Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect
The following long-term trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to affect our future results:
•Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves.
The continuing shift from an offline to online world has contributed to the growth of our business since inception, contributing to revenue growth, and we expect that this online shift will continue to benefit our business. 
•Users are increasingly using diverse devices and modalities to access our products and services, and our advertising revenues are increasingly coming from new formats.
Our users are accessing the Internet via diverse devices and modalities, such as smartphones, wearables and smart home devices, and want to be able to be connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. We are focused on expanding our products and services to stay in front of these trends in order to maintain and grow our business.
We are increasingly generating advertising revenues from different channels, including mobile, and newer advertising formats. The margins on advertising revenues from these channels and newer products have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Additionally, as the market for a particular device type or modality matures, our revenues may be affected. For example, growth in the global smartphone market has slowed due to various factors, including increased market saturation in developed countries, which can affect our mobile advertising revenue growth rates.
We expect TAC paid to our distribution partners and Google Network partners to increase as our revenues grow and TAC as a percentage of our advertising revenues ("TAC rate") to be affected by changes in device mix; geographic mix; partner mix; partner agreement terms; the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points; product mix; the relative revenue growth rates of advertising revenues from different channels; and revenue share terms.
We expect these trends to continue to affect our revenue growth rates and put pressure on our margins.
•As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings, which may affect our monetization.
As interactions between users and advertisers change, and as online user behavior evolves, we continue to expand and evolve our product offerings to serve these changing needs. Over time, we expect our monetization trends to fluctuate. For example, we have seen an increase in revenues from ads on YouTube and Google Play, which monetize at a lower rate than our traditional search ads.
•As users in developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue to increase and movements in foreign exchange rates affect such revenues.
The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, such as India. We continue to invest heavily and develop localized versions of our products and advertising programs relevant to our users in these markets. This has led to a trend of increased revenues from emerging markets. We expect that our results will continue to be affected by our performance in these markets, particularly as low-cost mobile devices become more available. This trend could affect our revenues as developing markets initially monetize at a lower rate than more mature markets.

Alphabet Inc.

International revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a foreign exchange risk management program designed to reduce our exposure to these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect on our revenues and earnings.
•The portion of revenues that we derive from non-advertising revenues is increasing and may adversely affect margins.
Non-advertising revenues have grown over time. We expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our offerings through products and services like Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware products, and YouTube subscriptions. We currently derive non-advertising revenues primarily from sales of apps and in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud services and subscription and other services. A number of Other Bets initiatives are in their initial development stages, and as such, revenues from these businesses could be volatile. In addition, the margins on these revenues vary significantly and may be lower than the margins on our advertising revenues.
•As we continue to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in operating and capital expenditures.
We continue to make significant R&D investments in areas of strategic focus across Google Services, Google Cloud and Other Bets. We also expect to continue to invest in land and buildings for data centers and offices, and information technology assets, which includes servers and network equipment, to support the long-term growth of our business. In addition, acquisitions and strategic investments contribute to the breadth and depth of our offerings, expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas, and build strong partnerships around strategic initiatives. For example, in January 2021 we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, Inc. for $2.1 billion, which is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices.
•We face continuing changes in regulatory conditions, laws, and public policies, which could affect our business practices and financial results.
Changes in social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics and related legal matters have resulted in fines and caused us to change our business practices. As these global trends continue, our cost of doing business may increase, and our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products or services may be limited. Examples include the antitrust complaints filed by the U.S. Department of Justice and a number of state Attorneys General, the Digital Markets Act in Europe, and various legislative proposals in the U.S. focused on large technology platforms.
•Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them.
Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue hiring talented employees around the globe and to provide competitive compensation programs. For additional information see Culture and Workforce in Part I, Item 1 “Business.”
Seasonality and other
Our advertising revenues are affected by seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends, such as traditional retail seasonality. Additionally, our non-advertising revenues, including those generated from Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware, and YouTube, may be affected by fluctuations driven by changes in pricing, digital content releases, fee structures, new product and service launches, other market dynamics, as well as seasonality. 
Revenues and Monetization Metrics
Google Services
Google Services revenues consist of revenues generated from advertising (“Google advertising”) as well as revenues from other sources (“Google other revenues”).
Google Advertising
Google advertising revenues are comprised of the following: 
•Google Search & other, which includes revenues generated on Google search properties (including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.), and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play;
•YouTube ads, which includes revenues generated on YouTube properties; and

Alphabet Inc.

•Google Network, which includes revenues generated on Google Network properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.
We use certain metrics to track how well traffic across various properties is monetized as it relates to our advertising revenues: paid clicks and cost-per-click pertain to traffic on Google Search & other properties, while impressions and cost-per-impressions pertain to traffic on our Network partners’ properties.
Paid clicks represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users on Google search properties and other Google owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play. Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.
Impressions include impressions displayed to users on Google Network properties participating primarily in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager. Cost-per-impression is defined as impression-based and click-based revenues divided by our total number of impressions, and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each impression displayed to users.
As our business evolves, we periodically review, refine, and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks and the number of impressions, and for identifying the revenues generated by the corresponding click and impression activity.
Our advertising revenue growth, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google Search & other properties and the change in impressions and cost-per-impression on Google Network properties and the correlation between these items, have been affected and may continue to be affected by various factors, including:
•advertiser competition for keywords;
•changes in advertising quality, formats, delivery or policy;
•changes in device mix;
•changes in foreign currency exchange rates;
•fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs;
•general economic conditions, including the effect of COVID-19;
•seasonality; and
•traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals and channels.
Google Other
Google other revenues are comprised of the following:
•Google Play, which includes sales of apps and in-app purchases and digital content sold in the Google Play store;
•Devices and Services, which includes sales of hardware, including Fitbit wearable devices, Google Nest home products, and Pixel phones;
•YouTube non-advertising, which includes YouTube Premium and YouTube TV subscriptions; and
•other products and services.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud revenues are comprised of the following:
•Google Cloud Platform, which includes fees for infrastructure, platform, and other services;
•Google Workspace, which includes fees for cloud-based collaboration tools for enterprises, such as Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar and Meet; and 
•other enterprise services.
Other Bets
Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of health technology and internet services.

Alphabet Inc.

For further details on how we recognize revenue, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Costs and Expenses 
Our cost structure has two components: cost of revenues and operating expenses. Our operating expenses include costs related to R&D, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions. Certain of these expenses, including those associated with the operation of our technical infrastructure as well as components of our operating expenses, are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate to the changes in revenue.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues is comprised of TAC and other costs of revenues.
•TAC includes: 
◦Amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
◦Amounts paid to Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed on their properties.
•Other cost of revenues includes:
◦Content acquisition costs, which are payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee).
◦Expenses associated with our data centers (including bandwidth, compensation expenses, depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs) as well as other operations costs (such as content review as well as customer and product support costs).
◦Inventory and other costs related to the hardware we sell.
The cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network properties are significantly higher than the cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Search & other properties, because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network partners.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses are generally incurred during our normal course of business, which we categorize as either R&D, sales and marketing, or general and administrative.
The main components of our R&D expenses are:
•compensation expenses for engineering and technical employees responsible for R&D related to our existing and new products and services; 
•depreciation; and
•professional services fees primarily related to consulting and outsourcing services.
The main components of our sales and marketing expenses are:
•compensation expenses for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions; and
•spending relating to our advertising and promotional activities in support of our products and services.
The main components of our general and administrative expenses are:
•compensation expenses for employees in finance, human resources, information technology, legal, and other administrative support functions; 
•expenses related to legal matters, including fines and settlements; and 
•professional services fees, including audit, consulting, outside legal, and outsourcing services.

Alphabet Inc.

Other Income (Expense), Net 
Other income (expense), net primarily consists of interest income (expense), the effect of foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net gains (losses) and impairment on our marketable and non-marketable securities, performance fees, and income (loss) and impairment from our equity method investments. 
For additional details, including how we account for our investments and factors that can drive fluctuations in the value of our investments, see Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”.
Provision for Income Taxes
Provision for income taxes represents the estimated amount of federal, state, and foreign income taxes incurred in the U.S. and the many jurisdictions in which we operate. The provision includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties.
For additional details, including a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to our effective tax rate, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Executive Overview
The following table summarizes consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021 unless otherwise specified (in millions, except for per share information and percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31, | | | | 
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | $ Change | | % Change
Consolidated revenues | $ | 182,527 | | | $ | 257,637 | | | $ | 75,110 | 41 | %
Change in consolidated constant currency revenues | | | | | | | 39 | %
Cost of revenues | $ | 84,732 | | | $ | 110,939 | | | $ | 26,207 | 31 | %
Operating expenses | $ | 56,571 | | | $ | 67,984 | | | $ | 11,413 | 20 | %
Operating income | $ | 41,224 | | | $ | 78,714 | | | $ | 37,490 | 91 | %
Operating margin | 23 | % | | 31 | % | | | | 8 | % 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 6,858 | | | $ | 12,020 | | | $ | 5,162 | 75 | %
Net Income | $ | 40,269 | | | $ | 76,033 | | | $ | 35,764 | 89 | %
Diluted EPS | $ | 58.61 | | | $ | 112.20 | | | $ | 53.59 | 91 | %
Number of Employees | 135,301 | | 156,500 | | 21,199 | | 16 | %

•Revenues were $257.6 billion, an increase of 41%. The increase in revenues was primarily driven by Google Services and Google Cloud. The adverse effect of COVID-19 on 2020 advertising revenues also contributed to the year-over-year growth.
•Cost of revenues was $110.9 billion, an increase of 31%, primarily driven by increases in TAC and content acquisition costs. An overall increase in data centers and other operations costs was partially offset by a reduction in depreciation expense due to the change in the estimated useful life of our servers and certain network equipment.
•Operating expenses were $68.0 billion, an increase of 20%, primarily driven by headcount growth, increases in advertising and promotional expenses and charges related to legal matters.
Other information:
•Operating cash flow was $91.7 billion, primarily driven by revenues generated from our advertising products.
•Share repurchases were $50.3 billion, an increase of 62%. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 

Alphabet Inc.

•Capital expenditures, which primarily reflected investments in technical infrastructure, were $24.6 billion.
•In January 2021, we updated the useful lives of certain of our servers and network equipment, resulting in a reduction in depreciation expense of $2.6 billion recorded primarily in cost of revenues and R&D. See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
•Our acquisition of Fitbit closed in early January 2021, and the related revenues are included in Google other. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
•On February 1, 2022, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had approved and declared a 20-for-one stock split in the form of a one-time special stock dividend on each share of the Company’s Class A, Class B, and Class C stock. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
The Effect of COVID-19 on our Financial Results 
We began to observe the effect of COVID-19 on our financial results in March 2020 when, despite an increase in users' search activity, our advertising revenues declined compared to the prior year. This was due to a shift of user search activity to less commercial topics and reduced spending by our advertisers. For the quarter ended June 30, 2020 our advertising revenues declined due to the continued effects of COVID-19 and the related reductions in global economic activity, but we observed a gradual return in user search activity to more commercial topics. This was followed by increased spending by our advertisers, which continued throughout the second half of 2020. Additionally, over the course of 2020, we experienced variability in our margins as many of our expenses are less variable in nature and/or may not correlate to changes in revenues. Market volatility contributed to fluctuations in the valuation of our equity investments. Further, our assessment of the credit deterioration of our customers due to changes in the macroeconomic environment during the period was reflected in our allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable. 
Throughout 2021 we remained focused on innovating and investing in the services we offer to consumers and businesses to support our long-term growth. The impact of COVID-19 on 2020 financial results affected year-over-year growth trends. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, be unpredictable and affect our business and financial results. Our past results may not be indicative of our future performance, and historical trends in our financial results may differ materially.
Financial Results
Revenues
The following table presents revenues by type (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Google Search & other | $ | 104,062 | | | $ | 148,951
YouTube ads | 19,772 | | | 28,845 | 
Google Network | 23,090 | | | 31,701 | 
Google advertising | 146,924 | | | 209,497 | 
Google other | 21,711 | | | 28,032 | 
Google Services total | 168,635 | | | 237,529 | 
Google Cloud | 13,059 | | | 19,206 | 
Other Bets | 657 | | | 753 | 
Hedging gains (losses) | 176 | | | 149 | 
Total revenues | $ | 182,527 | | | $ | 257,637

Google Services
Google advertising revenues
Google Search & other
Google Search & other revenues increased $44.9 billion from 2020 to 2021. The overall growth was driven by interrelated factors including increases in search queries resulting from growth in user adoption and usage, primarily 

Alphabet Inc.

on mobile devices, growth in advertiser spending, and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery. The adverse effect of COVID-19 on 2020 revenues also contributed to the year-over-year increase.
YouTube ads
YouTube ads revenues increased $9.1 billion from 2020 to 2021. Growth was driven by our direct response and brand advertising products. Growth for our direct response advertising products was primarily driven by increased advertiser spending as well as improvements to ad formats and delivery. Growth for our brand advertising products was primarily driven by increased spending by our advertisers and the adverse effect of COVID-19 on 2020 revenues.
Google Network
Google Network revenues increased $8.6 billion from 2020 to 2021. The growth was primarily driven by strength in AdMob, Google Ad Manager, and AdSense. The adverse effect of COVID-19 on 2020 revenues also contributed to the year-over-year increase.
Monetization Metrics
Paid clicks and cost-per-click
The following table presents changes in paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage) from 2020 to 2021:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 
Paid clicks change | 23 | %
Cost-per-click change | 15 | %

Paid clicks increased from 2020 to 2021 driven by a number of interrelated factors, including an increase in search queries resulting from growth in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices; an increase in clicks relating to ads on Google Play; growth in advertiser spending; and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery. The adverse effect of COVID-19 on 2020 paid clicks also contributed to the increase.
The increase in cost-per-click from 2020 to 2021 was driven by a number of interrelated factors including changes in device mix, geographic mix, growth in advertiser spending, ongoing product changes, and property mix, as well as the adverse effect of COVID-19 in 2020.
Impressions and cost-per-impression
The following table presents changes in impressions and cost-per-impression (expressed as a percentage) from 2020 to 2021:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 
Impressions change | 2 | %
Cost-per-impression change | 35 | %

Impressions increased from 2020 to 2021 primarily driven by growth in AdMob, partially offset by a decline in impressions related to AdSense. The increase in cost-per-impression was primarily driven by the adverse effect of COVID-19 in 2020 as well as the effect of interrelated factors including ongoing product and policy changes and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, changes in device mix, geographic mix, product mix, and property mix.
Google other revenues
Google other revenues increased $6.3 billion from 2020 to 2021. The growth was primarily driven by YouTube non-advertising and hardware, followed by Google Play. Growth for YouTube non-advertising was primarily due to an increase in paid subscribers. Growth in hardware reflects the inclusion of Fitbit revenues, as the acquisition closed in January 2021, and an increase in phone sales. Growth for Google Play was primarily driven by sales of apps and in-app purchases.

Alphabet Inc.

Google Cloud
Google Cloud revenues increased $6.1 billion from 2020 to 2021. The growth was primarily driven by GCP followed by Google Workspace offerings. Google Cloud's infrastructure and platform services were the largest drivers of growth in GCP.
Revenues by Geography
The following table presents revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the addresses of our customers:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
United States | 47 | % | | 46 | %
EMEA | 30 | % | | 31 | %
APAC | 18 | % | | 18 | %
Other Americas | 5 | % | | 5 | %

For further details on revenues by geography, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Use of Constant Currency Revenues and Constant Currency Revenue Percentage Change
The effect of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period to period comparisons. We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues and non-GAAP percentage change in constant currency revenues for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results helps improve the ability to understand our performance because it excludes the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.
Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and use it to determine the constant currency revenue percentage change on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior year comparable period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging effects realized in the current period.
Constant currency revenue percentage change is calculated by determining the change in current period revenues over prior year comparable period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior year comparable period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues of both periods.
These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.

Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents the foreign exchange effect on international revenues and total revenues (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | % Change from Prior Year
EMEA revenues | $ | 55,370 | | | $ | 79,107 | | | 43 | %
EMEA constant currency revenues | | | 76,321 | | | 38 | % 
APAC revenues | 32,550 | | | 46,123 | | | 42 | %
APAC constant currency revenues | | | 45,666 | | | 40 | % 
Other Americas revenues | 9,417 | | | 14,404 | | | 53 | %
Other Americas constant currency revenues | | | 14,317 | | | 52 | % 
United States revenues | 85,014 | | | 117,854 | | | 39 | %
Hedging gains (losses) | 176 | | | 149 | | | 
Total revenues | $ | 182,527 | | | $ | 257,637 | | | 41 | %
Revenues, excluding hedging effect | $ | 182,351 | | | $ | 257,488 | | | 
Exchange rate effect | | | (3,330) | | | 
Total constant currency revenues | | | $ | 254,158 | | | 39 | %

EMEA revenue growth from 2020 to 2021 was favorably affected by foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Euro and British pound.
APAC revenue growth from 2020 to 2021 was favorably affected by foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Australian dollar, partially offset by the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Japanese yen.
Other Americas growth change from 2020 to 2021 was favorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Canadian dollar, partially offset by the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Argentine peso and the Brazilian real.
Costs and Expenses
Cost of Revenues
The following tables present cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
TAC | $ | 32,778 | | | $ | 45,566 
Other cost of revenues | 51,954 | | | 65,373 | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 84,732 | | | $ | 110,939
Total cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues | 46.4 | % | | 43.1 | %

Cost of revenues increased $26.2 billion from 2020 to 2021. The increase was due to an increase in other cost of revenues and TAC of $13.4 billion and $12.8 billion, respectively.
The increase in TAC from 2020 to 2021 was due to an increase in TAC paid to distribution partners and to Google Network partners, primarily driven by growth in revenues subject to TAC. The TAC rate decreased from 22.3% to 21.8% from 2020 to 2021 primarily due to a revenue mix shift from Google Network properties to Google Search & other properties. The TAC rate on Google Search & other properties revenues and the TAC rate on Google Network revenues were both substantially consistent from 2020 to 2021.
The increase in other cost of revenues from 2020 to 2021 was driven by increases in content acquisition costs primarily for YouTube, data center and other operations costs, and hardware costs. The increase in data center and 

Alphabet Inc.

other operations costs was partially offset by a reduction in depreciation expense due to the change in the estimated useful life of our servers and certain network equipment beginning in the first quarter of 2021.
Research and Development
The following table presents R&D expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Research and development expenses | $ | 27,573 | | | $ | 31,562
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues | 15.1 | % | | 12.3 | %

R&D expenses increased $4.0 billion from 2020 to 2021. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses of $3.5 billion, largely resulting from an 11% increase in headcount, and an increase in professional service fees of $516 million. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in depreciation expense of $450 million including the effect of our change in the estimated useful life of our servers and certain network equipment.
Sales and Marketing
The following table presents sales and marketing expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Sales and marketing expenses | $ | 17,946 | | | $ | 22,912
Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues | 9.8 | % | | 8.9 | %

Sales and marketing expenses increased $5.0 billion from 2020 to 2021, primarily driven by an increase in advertising and promotional activities of $2.5 billion and an increase in compensation expenses of $2.2 billion. The increase in advertising and promotional activities was driven by both increased spending in the current period and a reduction in spending in 2020 due to COVID-19. The increase in compensation expenses was largely due to a 14% increase in headcount.
General and Administrative
The following table presents general and administrative expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
General and administrative expenses | $ | 11,052 | | | $ | 13,510
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues | 6.1 | % | | 5.2 | %

General and administrative expenses increased $2.5 billion from 2020 to 2021. The increase was primarily driven by a $1.7 billion increase in charges relating to legal matters and a $664 million increase in compensation expenses, largely resulting from a 14% increase in headcount. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in expense of $808 million related to a decline in allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, as 2020 reflected a higher allowance related to the economic effect of COVID-19.

Alphabet Inc.

Segment Profitability
The following table presents segment operating income (loss) (in millions).

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Operating income (loss): | | | 
Google Services | $ | 54,606 | | | $ | 91,855
Google Cloud | (5,607) | | | (3,099) | 
Other Bets | (4,476) | | | (5,281) | 
Corporate costs, unallocated(1) | (3,299) | | | (4,761) | 
Total income from operations | $ | 41,224 | | | $ | 78,714

(1)Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such as finance and legal, including certain fines and settlements, as well as costs associated with certain shared R&D activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related to revenue are included in corporate costs.
Google Services
Google services operating income increased $37.2 billion from 2020 to 2021. The increase was due to growth in revenues partially offset by increases in TAC, content acquisition costs, compensation expenses, advertising and promotional expenses, and charges related to certain legal matters. The increase in expenses was partially offset by a reduction in costs driven by the change in the estimated useful life of our servers and certain network equipment. The effect of COVID-19 on 2020 results affected the year-over-year increase in operating income.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud operating loss decreased $2.5 billion from 2020 to 2021. The decrease in operating loss was primarily driven by growth in revenues, partially offset by an increase in expenses, primarily driven by compensation expenses. The increase in expenses was partially offset by a reduction in costs driven by the change in the estimated useful life of our servers and certain network equipment.
Other Bets
Other Bets operating loss increased $805 million from 2020 to 2021. The increase in operating loss was primarily driven by increases in compensation expenses, including an increase in valuation-based compensation charges during the second quarter of 2021.
Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table presents other income (expense), net, (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Other income (expense), net | $ | 6,858 | | $ | 12,020

Other income (expense), net, increased $5.2 billion from 2020 to 2021. The increase was primarily driven by increases in net unrealized gains recognized for our marketable and non-marketable equity securities of $6.9 billion, partially offset by an increase in accrued performance fees related to certain investments of $1.3 billion.
See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
Provision for Income Taxes
The following table presents provision for income taxes (in millions, except for effective tax rate):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Provision for income taxes | $ | 7,813 | | | $ | 14,701
Effective tax rate | 16.2 | % | | 16.2 | %

The provision for income taxes increased from 2020 to 2021, primarily due to an increase in pre-tax earnings, including in countries that have higher statutory rates, partially offset by an increase in the stock-based compensation related tax benefit, and the U.S. federal Foreign-Derived Intangible Income tax deduction benefit. Our effective tax rate 

Alphabet Inc.

was substantially consistent from 2020 to 2021. See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
Financial Condition
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
As of December 31, 2021, we had $139.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, and marketable equity securities.
Sources, Uses of Cash and Related Trends
Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from operations. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long-term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace and form of capital return to stockholders.
The following table presents our cash flows (in millions):
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 65,124 | | $ | 91,652 
Net cash used in investing activities | $ | (32,773) | | $ | (35,523)
Net cash used in financing activities | $ | (24,408) | | $ | (61,362)

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Our largest source of cash provided by operations are advertising revenues generated by Google Search & other properties, Google Network properties, and YouTube ads. Additionally, we generate cash through sales of apps and in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees including fees received for Google Cloud offerings and subscription-based products.
Our primary uses of cash from operating activities include payments to distribution and Google Network partners, for compensation and related costs, and for content acquisition costs. In addition, uses of cash from operating activities include hardware inventory costs, income taxes, and other general corporate expenditures.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2020 to 2021 primarily due to the net effect of an increase in cash received from revenues and cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses, and changes in operating assets and liabilities.
Cash Used in Investing Activities
Cash provided by investing activities consists primarily of maturities and sales of our investments in marketable and non-marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of purchases of marketable and non-marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment, and payments for acquisitions.
Net cash used in investing activities increased from 2020 to 2021 primarily due to a decrease in maturities and sales of marketable securities, an increase in purchases of property and equipment, offset by a decrease in purchases of non-marketable securities.
Cash Used in Financing Activities
Cash provided by financing activities consists primarily of proceeds from issuance of debt and proceeds from the sale of interest in consolidated entities. Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of repurchases of common and capital stock, net payments related to stock-based award activities, and repayments of debt.
Net cash used in financing activities increased from 2020 to 2021 primarily due to repayment of debt and an increase in cash payments for repurchases of common and capital stock.
Liquidity and Material Cash Requirements
We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash flows from operations and financing activities to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.

Alphabet Inc.

Capital Expenditures and Leases
We make investments in land and buildings for data centers and offices and information technology assets through purchases of property and equipment and lease arrangements to provide capacity for the growth of our services and products. 
Capital Expenditures
Our capital investments in property and equipment consist primarily of the following major categories:
•technical infrastructure, which consists of our investments in servers and network equipment for computing, storage and networking requirements for ongoing business activities, including machine learning (collectively referred to as our information technology assets) and data center land and building construction; and
•office facilities, ground up development projects and related building improvements.
Construction in progress consists primarily of technical infrastructure and office facilities which have not yet been placed in service for our intended use. The time frame from date of purchase to placement in service of these assets may extend from months to years. For example, our data center construction projects are generally multi-year projects with multiple phases, where we acquire qualified land and buildings, construct buildings, and secure and install information technology assets. 
During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we spent $22.3 billion and $24.6 billion on capital expenditures, respectively. Depreciation of our property and equipment commences when the deployment of such assets are completed and are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, our depreciation and impairment expenses on property and equipment were $12.9 billion and $11.6 billion, respectively.
Leases
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we recognized total operating lease assets of $2.8 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, the amount of total future lease payments under operating leases, which had a weighted average remaining lease term of 8 years, was $15.5 billion, of which $2.5 billion is short-term. As of December 31, 2021, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future short-term and long-term lease payments of $606 million and $5.2 billion, excluding purchase options, that are not yet recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between 2022 and 2026 with non-cancelable lease terms of 1 to 25 years.
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, our operating lease expenses (including variable lease costs) were $2.9 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively. Finance lease costs were not material for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on leases.
Financing
We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper, which increased from $5.0 billion in September 2021. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2021, we had no commercial paper outstanding. 
As of December 31, 2021, we had $10.0 billion of revolving credit facilities with no amounts outstanding. In April 2021, we terminated the existing revolving credit facilities, which were scheduled to expire in July 2023, and entered into two new revolving credit facilities in the amounts of $4.0 billion and $6.0 billion, which will expire in April 2022 and April 2026, respectively. The interest rates for the new credit facilities are determined based on a formula using certain market rates, as well as our progress toward the achievement of certain sustainability goals. No amounts have been borrowed under the new credit facilities.
As of December 31, 2021, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding with a total carrying value of $12.8 billion with short-term and long-term future interest payments of $231 million and $4.0 billion, respectively. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our debt.
Share Repurchase Program
In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading 

Alphabet Inc.

prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during 2021 we repurchased and subsequently retired 20.3 million aggregate shares for $50.3 billion. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock repurchased for $3.4 billion. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
European Commission Fines
In 2017, 2018 and 2019, the EC announced decisions that certain actions taken by Google infringed European competition law and imposed fines of €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017), €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018), and €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019), respectively. While each EC decision is under appeal, we included the fines in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines.
Taxes
As of December 31, 2021, we had short-term and long-term income taxes payable of $784 million and $5.7 billion related to a one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). As permitted by the Tax Act, we will pay the transition tax in annual interest-free installments through 2025. We also have taxes payable of $3.5 billion primarily related to uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2021. 
Purchase Commitments 
We regularly enter into significant non-cancelable contractual obligations primarily related to data center operations and build-outs, information technology assets, office buildings, purchases of inventory, and network capacity arrangements. As of December 31, 2021, such purchase commitments, which do not qualify for recognition on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, amount to $13.7 billion, of which $11.9 billion is short-term. These amounts represent the non-cancelable portion of agreements or the minimum cancellation fee. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of December 31, 2021.
Critical Accounting Estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions. Our critical accounting estimates are those estimates that involve a significant level of uncertainty at the time the estimate was made, and changes in them have had or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We have reviewed our critical accounting estimates with the audit and compliance committee of our Board of Directors.
See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of significant accounting policies and the effect on our financial statements.
Fair Value Measurements of Non-Marketable Equity Securities
We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, consisting primarily of our non-marketable equity securities. These investments are accounted for under the measurement alternative and are measured at cost, less impairment, subject to upward and downward adjustments resulting from observable price changes for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. These adjustments require quantitative assessments of the fair value of our securities, which may require the use of unobservable inputs. Pricing adjustments are determined by using various valuation methodologies and involve the use of estimates using the best information available, which may include cash flow projections or other available market data.
Non-marketable equity securities are also evaluated for impairment, based on qualitative factors including the companies' financial and liquidity position and access to capital resources, among others. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare quantitative measurements of the fair value of our equity investments using a market approach or an income approach, which requires judgment and the use of unobservable inputs, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data of private and public companies, among others. When our assessment indicates that an impairment exists, we write down the investment to its fair value.

Alphabet Inc.

We also have compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized returns from certain investments, i.e. performance fees. We recognize compensation expense based on the estimated payouts, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized, and may require the use of unobservable inputs.
Property and Equipment
We assess the reasonableness of the useful lives of our property and equipment periodically as well as when other changes occur, such as when there are changes to ongoing business operations, changes in the planned use and utilization of assets, or technological advancements, that could indicate a change in the period over which we expect to benefit from the assets. 
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes.
Recording an uncertain tax position involves various qualitative considerations, including evaluation of comparable and resolved tax exposures, applicability of tax laws, and likelihood of settlement. We evaluate uncertain tax positions periodically, considering changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made.
The provision for income taxes includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Loss Contingencies
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury consumer protection, and other matters. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. 
Change in Accounting Estimate
In January 2021, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and certain network equipment. In doing so, we determined we should adjust the estimated useful life. This change in accounting estimate was effective beginning fiscal year 2021 and is detailed further in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity investment risks. 
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We transact business globally in multiple currencies. International revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro, and Japanese yen. For the purpose of analyzing foreign currency exchange risk, we considered the historical trends in 

Alphabet Inc.

foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% could be experienced in the near term.
We use foreign exchange forward contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary. These forward contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on these assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which are offset by the gains and losses on the forward contracts.
If an adverse 10% foreign currency exchange rate change was applied to total monetary assets, liabilities, and commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies at the balance sheet date, it would have resulted in an adverse effect on income before income taxes of approximately $497 million and $285 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively, after consideration of the effect of foreign exchange contracts in place for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021.
We use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) to protect forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency options and forwards reduce the foreign currency losses related to our earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency collars and forwards offset the foreign currency gains related to our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. We reflect the gains or losses of foreign currency spot rate changes as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassify them into revenues to offset the hedged exposures as they occur. 
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10% as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, the amount recorded in AOCI related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been approximately $912 million and $1.3 billion lower as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively. The change in the value recorded in AOCI would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in forecasted hedged revenues when recognized.
We use foreign exchange forward contracts designated as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to investment in foreign subsidiaries. These forward contracts serve to offset the foreign currency translation risk from our foreign operations.
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10%, the amount recorded in cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) within AOCI related to our net investment hedge would have been approximately $1.0 billion lower as of both December 31, 2020 and 2021. The change in value recorded in CTA would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency translation gain or loss from our investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Interest Rate Risk
Our Corporate Treasury investment strategy is to achieve a return that will allow us to preserve capital and maintain liquidity. We invest primarily in debt securities, including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. By policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Unrealized gains or losses on our marketable debt securities are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations as compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. For certain fixed and variable rate debt securities, we have elected the fair value option for which changes in fair value are recorded in other income (expense), net. We measure securities for which we have not elected the fair value option at fair value with gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold, less any expected credit losses. 
We use value-at-risk (VaR) analysis to determine the potential effect of fluctuations in interest rates on the value of our marketable debt security portfolio. The VaR is the expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due to adverse movements in interest rates. We use a variance/covariance VaR model with 95% confidence interval. The estimated one-day loss in fair value of marketable debt securities as of December 31, 2020 and 2021 are shown below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, | | 12-Month Average As of December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021 | 2020 | | 2021
Risk Category - Interest Rate | $ | 144 | | $ | 139 | | $ | 145 | $ | 148


Alphabet Inc.

Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2020 and 2021 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes in interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. VaR analysis is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation.
Equity Investment Risk
Our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings.
Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks or funds and our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages.
We record marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method at fair value based on readily determinable market values, of which publicly traded stocks and mutual funds are subject to market price volatility, and represent $5.9 billion and $7.8 billion of our investments as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively. A hypothetical adverse price change of 10% on our December 31, 2021 balance, which could be experienced in the near term, would decrease the fair value of marketable equity securities by $780 million. From time to time, we may enter into derivatives to hedge the market price risk on certain of our marketable equity securities.
Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment (referred to as the measurement alternative). The fair value measured at the time of the observable transaction is not necessarily an indication of the current fair value as of the balance sheet date. These investments, especially those that are in the early stages, are inherently risky because the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early phases and may never materialize, and they may experience a decline in financial condition, which could result in a loss of a substantial part of our investment in these companies. The success of our investment in any private company is also typically dependent on the likelihood of our ability to realize appreciation in the value of investments through liquidity events such as public offerings, acquisitions, private sales or other market events. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities, which were accounted for under the measurement alternative, was $18.9 billion and $27.6 billion, respectively. Valuations of our equity investments in private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. Volatility in the global economic climate and financial markets could result in a significant impairment charge relating to our non-marketable equity securities. Changes in valuation of non-marketable equity securities may not directly correlate with changes in valuation of marketable equity securities. Additionally, observable transactions at lower valuations could result in significant losses on our non-marketable equity securities. The effect of COVID-19 on our impairment assessment requires significant judgment due to the uncertainty around the duration and severity of the effect.
The carrying values of our equity method investments, which totaled approximately $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively, generally do not fluctuate based on market price changes. However, these investments could be impaired if the carrying value exceeds the fair value and is not expected to recover.
For further information about our equity investments, see Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Alphabet Inc.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 | Page
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42) | 46 
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15 (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2020 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated February 1, 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. 

Alphabet Inc.

Loss Contingencies 
Description of the Matter | The Company is regularly subject to claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by its users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using their platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. As described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements “Contingencies” such claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings could result in adverse consequences.Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood, and the estimated amount, of a loss related to such matters. Auditing management’s accounting for and disclosure of loss contingencies from these matters involved challenging and subjective auditor judgment in assessing the Company’s evaluation of the probability of a loss, and the estimated amount or range of loss.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit | We tested relevant controls over the identified risks associated with management’s accounting for and disclosure of these matters. This included controls over management’s assessment of the probability of incurrence of a loss and whether the loss or range of loss was reasonably estimable and the development of related disclosures.Our audit procedures included gaining an understanding of previous rulings issued by regulators and the status of ongoing lawsuits, reviewing letters addressing the matters from internal and external legal counsel, meeting with internal legal counsel to discuss the allegations, and obtaining a representation letter from management on these matters. We also evaluated the Company’s disclosures in relation to these matters. 


/s/ Ernst & Young LLP 
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1999.
San Jose, California 
February 1, 2022 


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Alphabet Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Alphabet Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the 2021 consolidated financial statements of the Company and our report dated February 1, 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 1, 2022 


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands, and par value per share amounts)
 | As of December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Assets | | | 
Current assets: | | | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 26,465 | | | $ | 20,945 
Marketable securities | 110,229 | | | 118,704 | 
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | 136,694 | | | 139,649 | 
Accounts receivable, net | 30,930 | | | 39,304 | 
Income taxes receivable, net | 454 | | | 966 | 
Inventory | 728 | | | 1,170 | 
Other current assets | 5,490 | | | 7,054 | 
Total current assets | 174,296 | | | 188,143 | 
Non-marketable securities | 20,703 | | | 29,549 | 
Deferred income taxes | 1,084 | | | 1,284 | 
Property and equipment, net | 84,749 | | | 97,599 | 
Operating lease assets | 12,211 | | | 12,959 | 
Intangible assets, net | 1,445 | | | 1,417 | 
Goodwill | 21,175 | | | 22,956 | 
Other non-current assets | 3,953 | | | 5,361 | 
Total assets | $ | 319,616 | | | $ | 359,268
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity | | | 
Current liabilities: | | | 
Accounts payable | $ | 5,589 | | | $ | 6,037 
Accrued compensation and benefits | 11,086 | | | 13,889 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 28,631 | | | 31,236 | 
Accrued revenue share | 7,500 | | | 8,996 | 
Deferred revenue | 2,543 | | | 3,288 | 
Income taxes payable, net | 1,485 | | | 808 | 
Total current liabilities | 56,834 | | | 64,254 | 
Long-term debt | 13,932 | | | 14,817 | 
Deferred revenue, non-current | 481 | | | 535 | 
Income taxes payable, non-current | 8,849 | | | 9,176 | 
Deferred income taxes | 3,561 | | | 5,257 | 
Operating lease liabilities | 11,146 | | | 11,389 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 2,269 | | | 2,205 | 
Total liabilities | 97,072 | | | 107,633 | 
Contingencies (Note 10) | | | 
Stockholders’ equity: | | | 
Preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share, 100,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding | 0 | | | 0 | 
Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.001 par value per share: 15,000,000 shares authorized (Class A 9,000,000, Class B 3,000,000, Class C 3,000,000); 675,222 (Class A 300,730, Class B 45,843, Class C 328,649) and 662,121 (Class A 300,737, Class B 44,665, Class C 316,719) shares issued and outstanding | 58,510 | | | 61,774 | 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) | 633 | | | (1,623) | 
Retained earnings | 163,401 | | | 191,484 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 222,544 | | | 251,635 | 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity | $ | 319,616 | | | $ | 359,268

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
Revenues | $ | 161,857 | | | $ | 182,527 | | $ | 257,637
Costs and expenses: | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 71,896 | | | 84,732 | | | 110,939
Research and development | 26,018 | | | 27,573 | | | 31,562 
Sales and marketing | 18,464 | | | 17,946 | | | 22,912 
General and administrative | 9,551 | | | 11,052 | | | 13,510 
European Commission fines | 1,697 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Total costs and expenses | 127,626 | | | 141,303 | | | 178,923
Income from operations | 34,231 | | | 41,224 | | | 78,714 
Other income (expense), net | 5,394 | | | 6,858 | | | 12,020 
Income before income taxes | 39,625 | | | 48,082 | | | 90,734 
Provision for income taxes | 5,282 | | | 7,813 | | | 14,701 
Net income | $ | 34,343 | | | $ | 40,269 | | $ | 76,033 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 49.59 | | | $ | 59.15 | | $ | 113.88 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 49.16 | | | $ | 58.61 | | $ | 112.20 

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In millions)
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
Net income | $ | 34,343 | | | $ | 40,269 | | $ | 76,033
Other comprehensive income (loss): | | | | | 
Change in foreign currency translation adjustment | (119) | | | 1,139 | | | (1,442)
Available-for-sale investments: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 1,611 | | | 1,313 | | | (1,312)
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (111) | | | (513) | | | (64) 
Net change, net of income tax benefit (expense) of $(221), $(230), and $394 | 1,500 | | | 800 | | | (1,376)
Cash flow hedges: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 22 | | | 42 | | | 716 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (299) | | | (116) | | | (154) 
Net change, net of income tax benefit (expense) of $42, $11, and $(122) | (277) | | | (74) | | | 562 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 1,104 | | | 1,865 | | | (2,256)
Comprehensive income | $ | 35,447 | | | $ | 42,134 | | $ | 73,777

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands)
 | Class A and Class BCommon Stock, Class C Capital Stock andAdditional Paid-In Capital | AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss) | | RetainedEarnings | TotalStockholders’Equity
 | Shares | Amount | 
Balance as of December 31, 2018 | 695,556 | | $ | 45,049 | | $ | (2,306) | | $ | 134,885 | $ | 177,628
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | 0 | | (30) | | | (4) | | (34) 
Common and capital stock issued | 8,120 | | 202 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 202 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 10,890 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 10,890 
Income tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | (4,455) | | 0 | | | 0 | | (4,455) 
Repurchases of capital stock | (15,341) | | (1,294) | | 0 | | | (17,102) | | (18,396)
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | 160 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 160 
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 34,343 | | 34,343 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | 1,104 | | | 0 | | 1,104 
Balance as of December 31, 2019 | 688,335 | | 50,552 | | (1,232) | | | 152,122 | | 201,442 
Common and capital stock issued | 8,398 | | 168 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 168 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 13,123 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 13,123 
Income tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | (5,969) | | 0 | | | 0 | | (5,969) 
Repurchases of capital stock | (21,511) | | (2,159) | | 0 | | | (28,990) | | (31,149)
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | 2,795 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 2,795 
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 40,269 | | 40,269 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | 1,865 | | | 0 | | 1,865 
Balance as of December 31, 2020 | 675,222 | | 58,510 | | 633 | | | 163,401 | | 222,544 
Common and capital stock issued | 7,225 | | 12 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 12 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 15,539 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 15,539 
Income tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | (10,273) | | 0 | | | 0 | | (10,273)
Repurchases of common and capital stock | (20,326) | | (2,324) | | 0 | | | (47,950) | | (50,274)
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | 310 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 310 
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 76,033 | | 76,033 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | (2,256) | | | 0 | | (2,256) 
Balance as of December 31, 2021 | 662,121 | | $ | 61,774 | | $ | (1,623) | | $ | 191,484 | $ | 251,635

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
Operating activities | | | | | 
Net income | $ | 34,343 | | | $ | 40,269 | | $ | 76,033
Adjustments: | | | | | 
Depreciation and impairment of property and equipment | 10,856 | | | 12,905 | | | 11,555 
Amortization and impairment of intangible assets | 925 | | | 792 | | | 886 
Stock-based compensation expense | 10,794 | | | 12,991 | | | 15,376 
Deferred income taxes | 173 | | | 1,390 | | | 1,808 
Gain on debt and equity securities, net | (2,798) | | | (6,317) | | | (12,270) 
Other | (592) | | | 1,267 | | | (213) 
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions: | | | | | 
Accounts receivable | (4,340) | | | (6,524) | | | (9,095) 
Income taxes, net | (3,128) | | | 1,209 | | | (625) 
Other assets | (621) | | | (1,330) | | | (1,846) 
Accounts payable | 428 | | | 694 | | | 283 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities | 7,170 | | | 5,504 | | | 7,304 
Accrued revenue share | 1,273 | | | 1,639 | | | 1,682 
Deferred revenue | 37 | | | 635 | | | 774 
Net cash provided by operating activities | 54,520 | | | 65,124 | | | 91,652 
Investing activities | | | | | 
Purchases of property and equipment | (23,548) | | | (22,281) | | | (24,640) 
Purchases of marketable securities | (100,315) | | | (136,576) | | | (135,196)
Maturities and sales of marketable securities | 97,825 | | | 132,906 | | | 128,294 
Purchases of non-marketable securities | (1,932) | | | (7,175) | | | (2,838) 
Maturities and sales of non-marketable securities | 405 | | | 1,023 | | | 934 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible assets | (2,515) | | | (738) | | | (2,618) 
Other investing activities | 589 | | | 68 | | | 541 
Net cash used in investing activities | (29,491) | | | (32,773) | | | (35,523) 
Financing activities | | | | | 
Net payments related to stock-based award activities | (4,765) | | | (5,720) | | | (10,162) 
Repurchases of common and capital stock | (18,396) | | | (31,149) | | | (50,274) 
Proceeds from issuance of debt, net of costs | 317 | | | 11,761 | | | 20,199 
Repayments of debt | (585) | | | (2,100) | | | (21,435) 
Proceeds from sale of interest in consolidated entities, net | 220 | | | 2,800 | | | 310 
Net cash used in financing activities | (23,209) | | | (24,408) | | | (61,362) 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents | (23) | | | 24 | | | (287) 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents | 1,797 | | | 7,967 | | | (5,520) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period | 16,701 | | | 18,498 | | | 26,465 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period | $ | 18,498 | | | $ | 26,465 | | $ | 20,945
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information | | | | | 
Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds | $ | 8,203 | | | $ | 4,990 | | $ | 13,412

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Google was incorporated in California in September 1998 and re-incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2003. In 2015, we implemented a holding company reorganization, and as a result, Alphabet Inc. ("Alphabet") became the successor issuer to Google.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet include the accounts of Alphabet and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Use of Estimates
Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates due to uncertainties, including the effects of COVID-19. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the allowance for credit losses; fair values of financial instruments, intangible assets, and goodwill; useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment; income taxes; and contingent liabilities, among others. We base our estimates on assumptions, both historical and forward looking, that are believed to be reasonable, and the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
In January 2021, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment and adjusted the estimated useful life of our servers from three years to four years and the estimated useful life of certain network equipment from three years to five years. This change in accounting estimate was effective beginning in fiscal year 2021. Based on the carrying value of servers and certain network equipment as of December 31, 2020 and those acquired during the year ended December 31, 2021, the effect of this change in estimate was a reduction in depreciation expense of $2.6 billion and an increase in net income of $2.0 billion, or $3.02 per basic share and $2.98 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2021.
Revenue Recognition
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, and the collectibility of an amount that we expect in exchange for those goods or services is probable. Sales and other similar taxes are excluded from revenues. 
Advertising Revenues
We generate advertising revenues primarily by delivering advertising on:
•Google Search and other properties, including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc. and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play;
•YouTube properties; and
•Google Network properties, including revenues from Google Network properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.
Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through Google Ads, Google Ad Manager, and Google Marketing Platform, among others.
We offer advertising by delivering both performance and brand advertising. We recognize revenues for performance advertising when a user engages with the advertisement, such as a click, a view, or a purchase. For brand advertising, we recognize revenues when the ad is displayed, or a user views the ad.
For ads placed on Google Network properties, we evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis). Generally, we report advertising revenues for ads placed on Google Network properties on a gross basis, that is, the amounts billed to our customers are recorded as revenues, and amounts paid to Google Network partners are recorded as cost of revenues. Where we are the principal, we control the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers. Our control is evidenced by our sole ability to monetize the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing.

Alphabet Inc.

Google Cloud Revenues
Google Cloud revenues consist of revenues from:
•Google Cloud Platform, which includes fees for infrastructure, platform, and other services;
•Google Workspace, which includes fees for cloud-based collaboration tools for enterprises, such as Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, and Meet; and 
•other enterprise services.
Our cloud services are generally provided on either a consumption or subscription basis and may have contract terms longer than a year. Revenues related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis are recognized when the customer utilizes the services, based on the quantity of services consumed. Revenues related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis are recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services.
Google Other Revenues 
Google other revenues consist of revenues from:
•Google Play, which includes sales of apps and in-app purchases and digital content sold in the Google Play store;
•hardware, which includes sales of Fitbit wearable devices, Google Nest home products, and Pixel phones;
•YouTube non-advertising, which includes YouTube Premium and YouTube TV subscriptions; and
•other products and services.
As it relates to Google other revenues, the most significant judgment is determining whether we are the principal or agent for app sales and in-app purchases through the Google Play store. We report revenues from these transactions on a net basis because our performance obligation is to facilitate a transaction between app developers and end users, for which we earn a service fee. 
Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations
Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We generally determine standalone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus margin.
Customer Incentives and Credits
Certain customers receive cash-based incentives or credits, which are accounted for as variable consideration. We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenues. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration.
Sales Commissions
We expense sales commissions when incurred and when the amortization period (the period of the expected benefit) is one year or less. We recognize an asset for certain sales commissions if we expect the period of benefit of these costs to exceed one year and recognize the expense over the amortization period. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of TAC and other costs of revenues.
•TAC includes: 
◦Amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
◦Amounts paid to Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed on their properties.
•Other cost of revenues includes:
◦Content acquisition costs, which are payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee).

Alphabet Inc.

◦Expenses associated with our data centers (including bandwidth, compensation expenses, depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs) as well as other operations costs (such as content review as well as customer and product support costs).
◦Inventory and other costs related to the hardware we sell.
Software Development Costs
We expense software development costs, including costs to develop software products or the software component of products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, before technological feasibility is reached. Technological feasibility is typically reached shortly before the release of such products. As a result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented.
Software development costs also include costs to develop software to be used solely to meet internal needs and cloud based applications used to deliver our services. We capitalize development costs related to these software applications once the preliminary project stage is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented.
Stock-based Compensation
Stock-based compensation primarily consists of Alphabet restricted stock units (RSUs). RSUs are equity classified and measured at the fair market value of the underlying stock at the grant date. We recognize RSU expense using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period and account for forfeitures as they occur.
For RSUs, shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the applicable statutory income tax withholding to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, fewer shares are issued than the number of RSUs outstanding, and the income tax withholding is recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital.
Additionally, stock-based compensation also includes other stock-based awards, such as performance stock units (PSUs) that include market conditions and awards that may be settled in cash or the stock of certain Other Bets. PSUs and certain Other Bet awards are equity classified and expense is recognized over the requisite service period. Certain Other Bet awards are liability classified and remeasured at fair value through settlement. The fair value of Other Bet awards is based on the equity valuation of the respective Other Bet.
Advertising and Promotional Expenses
We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020 and 2021, advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $6.8 billion, $5.4 billion, and $7.9 billion, respectively.
Performance Fees
Performance fees refer to compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized returns from certain investments. We recognize compensation expense based on the estimated payouts, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized, and may require the use of unobservable inputs. Performance fees are recorded as a component of other income (expense), net.
Fair Value Measurements 
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured and classified in accordance with a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the observability of the inputs available in the market used to measure fair value:
Level 1 - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2 - Inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activities.

Alphabet Inc.

The fair value hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. 
Our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative financial instruments, and certain non-marketable debt securities. Our financial assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include non-marketable equity securities. Other financial assets and liabilities are carried at cost with fair value disclosed, if required.
We measure certain other instruments, including stock-based compensation awards settled in the stock of certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, also at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. The determination of fair value involves the use of appropriate valuation methods and relevant inputs into valuation models. 
Financial Instruments
Our financial instruments include cash, cash equivalents, marketable and non-marketable securities, derivative financial instruments and accounts receivable. 
Credit Risks
We are subject to credit risk from cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative financial instruments, including foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. We manage our credit risk exposure through timely assessment of our counterparty creditworthiness, credit limits and use of collateral management. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from customers located around the world. We manage our credit risk exposure by performing ongoing evaluations to determine customer credit and we limit the amount of credit we extend. We generally do not require collateral from our customers.
Cash Equivalents
We invest excess cash primarily in government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, time deposits, and money market funds.
Marketable Securities
We classify all marketable debt securities that have stated maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase as cash equivalents and those with stated maturities of greater than three months as marketable securities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. We have classified and accounted for our marketable debt securities as available-for-sale. After consideration of our risk versus reward objectives, as well as our liquidity requirements, we may sell these debt securities prior to their stated maturities. As we view these securities as available to support current operations, we classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond 12 months as current assets under the caption marketable securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We carry these securities at fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, as a component of stockholders’ equity, except for the changes in allowance for expected credit losses, which are recorded in other income (expense), net. For certain marketable debt securities we have elected the fair value option, for which changes in fair value are recorded in other income (expense), net. We determine any realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable debt securities on a specific identification method, and we record such gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net.
Our investments in marketable equity securities are measured at fair value with the related gains and losses, including unrealized, recognized in other income (expense), net. We classify our marketable equity securities subject to long-term lock-up restrictions beyond twelve months as other non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Non-Marketable Securities
We account for non-marketable equity securities through which we exercise significant influence but do not have control over the investee under the equity method. Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are primarily accounted for under the measurement alternative. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value is measured at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. Adjustments are determined primarily based on a market approach as of the transaction date and are recorded as a component of other income (expense), net.
Non-marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale securities.

Alphabet Inc.

Non-marketable securities that do not have stated contractual maturity dates are classified as other non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Derivative Financial Instruments
See Note 3 for the accounting policy pertaining to derivative financial instruments. 
Accounts Receivable
Our payment terms for accounts receivable vary by the types and locations of our customers and the products or services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customers, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer. 
We maintain an allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, which is recorded as an offset to accounts receivable, and changes in such are classified as general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. We assess collectibility by reviewing accounts receivable on a collective basis where similar characteristics exist and on an individual basis when we identify specific customers with known disputes or collectibility issues. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we consider historical collectibility based on past due status and make judgments about the creditworthiness of customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. We also consider customer-specific information, current market conditions (such as the effects caused by COVID-19), and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions.
 The allowance for credit losses on accounts receivable was $789 million and $550 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively.
Other
Our financial instruments also include debt and equity investments in companies with which we also have commercial arrangements. For these transactions, judgment is required to assess the substance of the arrangements, such as the market value of similar transactions or the fair value of the investment based on stand-alone transactions, and whether the agreements should be accounted for as separate transactions under the applicable GAAP. 
Impairment of Investments
We periodically review our debt and non-marketable equity securities for impairment. 
For debt securities in an unrealized loss position, we determine whether a credit loss exists. The credit loss is estimated by considering available information relevant to the collectibility of the security and information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Any credit loss is recorded as a charge to other income (expense), net, not to exceed the amount of the unrealized loss. Unrealized losses other than the credit loss are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). If we have an intent to sell, or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a debt security in an unrealized loss position before recovery of its amortized cost basis, we will write down the security to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as a component of other income (expense), net. 
For non-marketable equity securities, including equity method investments, we consider whether impairment indicators exist by evaluating the companies' financial and liquidity position and access to capital resources, among other indicators. If the assessment indicates that the investment is impaired, we write down the investment to its fair value by recording the corresponding charge as a component of other income (expense), net. We prepare quantitative measurements of the fair value of our equity investments using a market approach or an income approach.
Inventory
Inventory consists primarily of finished goods and is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is computed using the first-in, first-out method.
Variable Interest Entities
We determine at the inception of each arrangement whether an entity in which we have made an investment or in which we have other variable interests is considered a variable interest entity (VIE). We consolidate VIEs when we are the primary beneficiary. We are the primary beneficiary of a VIE when we have the power to direct activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE and have the obligation to absorb the majority of their losses or benefits. If we are not the primary beneficiary in a VIE, we account for the investment or other variable interests in a VIE in accordance with applicable GAAP.
Periodically, we assess whether any changes in our interest or relationship with the entity affect our determination of whether the entity is a VIE and, if so, whether we are the primary beneficiary. 

Alphabet Inc.

Property and Equipment
Property and equipment includes the following categories: land and buildings, information technology assets, construction in progress, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. Land and buildings include land, offices, data centers, and related building improvements. Information technology assets include servers and network equipment. We account for property and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation. We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which we regularly evaluate. We depreciate buildings over periods of seven to 25 years. We depreciate information technology assets generally over periods of four to five years (generally, four years for servers and five years for network equipment).
We depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets. Construction in progress is the construction or development of property and equipment that have not yet been placed in service for our intended use. Depreciation for equipment, buildings, and leasehold improvements commences once they are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated.
Leases
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Our lease agreements generally contain lease and non-lease components. Payments under our lease arrangements are primarily fixed. Non-lease components primarily include payments for maintenance and utilities. We combine fixed payments for non-lease components with lease payments and account for them together as a single lease component which increases the amount of our lease assets and liabilities.
Certain lease agreements contain variable payments, which are expensed as incurred and not included in the lease assets and liabilities. These amounts include payments affected by the Consumer Price Index, payments contingent on wind or solar production for power purchase arrangements, and payments for maintenance and utilities.
Lease assets and liabilities are recognized at the present value of the future lease payments at the lease commencement date. The interest rate used to determine the present value of the future lease payments is our incremental borrowing rate, because the interest rate implicit in our leases is not readily determinable. Our incremental borrowing rate is estimated to approximate the interest rate on a collateralized basis with similar terms and payments, and in economic environments where the leased asset is located. Our lease terms include periods under options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. We generally use the base, non-cancelable, lease term when determining the lease assets and liabilities. Lease assets also include any prepaid lease payments and lease incentives.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The current portion of our operating lease liabilities is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and the long-term portion is included in operating lease liabilities. Finance lease assets are included in property and equipment, net. Finance lease liabilities are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities or long-term debt.
Operating lease expense (excluding variable lease costs) is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets
We review property and equipment and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows independent of other assets. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets or the asset group are expected to generate. If the carrying value of the assets or asset group is not recoverable, the impairment recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its fair value. Impairments were not material for the periods presented.
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the expected benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units periodically, as well as when changes in our operating segments occur. For changes in reporting units, we reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairments were not material for the periods presented.
Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis generally over periods ranging from one to twelve years.

Alphabet Inc.

Income Taxes
We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which we recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based on provisions of enacted tax law. We evaluate the realization of our deferred tax assets based on all available evidence and establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will not be realized.
We recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not that, based on technical merits, the position will be sustained upon examination. The tax benefits of the position recognized in the financial statements are then measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. In addition, we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the income tax provision.
Business Combinations
We include the results of operations of the businesses that we acquire as of the acquisition date. We allocate the purchase price of the acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred.
Foreign Currency
We translate the financial statements of our international subsidiaries to U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. We record translation gains and losses in AOCI as a component of stockholders’ equity. We reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion of the transaction currency to functional currency as a component of foreign currency exchange gain (loss) in other income (expense), net.
Prior Period Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
Note 2. Revenues 
Revenue Recognition
The following table presents revenues disaggregated by type (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
Google Search & other | $ | 98,115 | | | $ | 104,062 | | $ | 148,951
YouTube ads | 15,149 | | | 19,772 | | | 28,845 
Google Network | 21,547 | | | 23,090 | | | 31,701 
Google advertising | 134,811 | | | 146,924 | | | 209,497
Google other | 17,014 | | | 21,711 | | | 28,032 
Google Services total | 151,825 | | | 168,635 | | | 237,529
Google Cloud | 8,918 | | | 13,059 | | | 19,206 
Other Bets | 659 | | | 657 | | | 753 
Hedging gains (losses) | 455 | | | 176 | | | 149 
Total revenues | $ | 161,857 | | | $ | 182,527 | | $ | 257,637

No individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than 10% of our revenues in 2019, 2020, or 2021. 

Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the addresses of our customers (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
United States | $ | 74,843 | | | 46 | % | | $ | 85,014 | | 47 | % | $ | 117,854 | 46 | %
EMEA(1) | 50,645 | | | 31 | | | 55,370 | | | 30 | | 79,107 | | 31 
APAC(1) | 26,928 | | | 17 | | | 32,550 | | | 18 | | 46,123 | | 18 
Other Americas(1) | 8,986 | | | 6 | | | 9,417 | | | 5 | | 14,404 | | 5 
Hedging gains (losses) | 455 | | | 0 | | | 176 | | | 0 | | 149 | | 0 
Total revenues | $ | 161,857 | | | 100 | % | | $ | 182,527 | | 100 | % | $ | 257,637 | 100 | %

(1)    Regions represent Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific (APAC); and Canada and Latin America ("Other Americas").
Revenue Backlog and Deferred Revenues
As of December 31, 2021 we had $51.0 billion of remaining performance obligations (“revenue backlog”), primarily related to Google Cloud, and expect to recognize approximately half of this amount as revenues over the next 24 months with the remaining thereafter. Our revenue backlog represents commitments in customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized as revenues. The amount and timing of revenue recognition for these commitments is largely driven by when our customers utilize services and our ability to deliver in accordance with relevant contract terms, which could affect our estimate of revenue backlog and when we expect to recognize such as revenues. Revenue backlog includes related deferred revenue currently recorded as well as amounts that will be invoiced in future periods, and excludes contracts with an original expected term of one year or less and cancellable contracts.
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance, including amounts which are refundable. Deferred revenues primarily relate to Google Cloud and Google other. Total deferred revenue as of December 31, 2020 was $3.0 billion, of which $2.3 billion was recognized as revenues for the year ending December 31, 2021.
Note 3. Financial Instruments
Debt Securities
We classify our marketable debt securities, which are accounted for as available-for-sale within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, because we use quoted market prices to the extent available or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs to determine fair value.
For certain marketable debt securities, we have elected the fair value option for which changes in fair value are recorded in other income (expense), net. The fair value option was elected for these securities to align with the unrealized gains and losses from related derivative contracts. Unrealized net gains (losses) related to debt securities still held where we have elected the fair value option were $87 million and $(35) million as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2021, respectively. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2021, the fair value of these debt securities was $2.0 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively. 

Alphabet Inc.

 The following tables summarize debt securities, for which we did not elect the fair value option, by significant investment categories as of December 31, 2020 and 2021 (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2020
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | $ | 3,564 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | | $ | 3,564 | | $ | 3,564 | $ | 0 
Government bonds | 55,156 | | | 793 | | | (9) | | 55,940 | | 2,527 | | 53,413 | 
Corporate debt securities | 31,521 | | | 704 | | | (2) | | 32,223 | | 8 | | 32,215 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 16,767 | | | 364 | | | (7) | | 17,124 | | 0 | | 17,124 | 
Total | $ | 107,008 | | | $ | 1,861 | | $ | (18) | | $ | 108,851 | | $ | 6,099 | $ | 102,752


 | As of December 31, 2021
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | $ | 5,133 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | | $ | 5,133 | | $ | 5,133 | $ | 0 
Government bonds | 53,288 | | | 258 | | | (238) | | 53,308 | | 5 | | 53,303 | 
Corporate debt securities | 35,605 | | | 194 | | | (223) | | 35,576 | | 12 | | 35,564 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 18,829 | | | 96 | | | (112) | | 18,813 | | 0 | | 18,813 | 
Total | $ | 112,855 | | | $ | 548 | | $ | (573) | | $ | 112,830 | | $ | 5,150 | $ | 107,680

(1)The majority of our time deposits are domestic deposits.
We determine realized gains or losses on the sale or extinguishment of debt securities on a specific identification method. We recognized gross realized gains of $292 million, $899 million, and $432 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021, respectively. We recognized gross realized losses of $143 million, $184 million, and $329 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021, respectively. We reflect these gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net.
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of investments in marketable debt securities by stated contractual maturity dates (in millions):

 | As ofDecember 31, 2021
Due in 1 year or less | $ | 16,192 
Due in 1 year through 5 years | 78,625 | 
Due in 5 years through 10 years | 4,675 | 
Due after 10 years | 12,864 | 
Total | $ | 112,356

The following tables present fair values and gross unrealized losses recorded to AOCI as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, aggregated by investment category and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2020
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds | $ | 5,516 | | | $ | (9) | | $ | 3 | | $ | 0 | | $ | 5,519 | $ | (9) 
Corporate debt securities | 1,999 | | | (1) | | | 0 | | 0 | | 1,999 | | (1) | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 929 | | | (5) | | | 242 | | (2) | | 1,171 | | (7) | 
Total | $ | 8,444 | | | $ | (15) | | $ | 245 | | $ | (2) | | $ | 8,689 | $ | (17)


Alphabet Inc.


 | As of December 31, 2021
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds | $ | 32,843 | | | $ | (236) | | $ | 71 | | $ | (2) | | $ | 32,914 | $ | (238)
Corporate debt securities | 22,737 | | | (152) | | | 303 | | (5) | | 23,040 | | (157) | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 11,502 | | | (106) | | | 248 | | (6) | | 11,750 | | (112) | 
Total | $ | 67,082 | | | $ | (494) | | $ | 622 | | $ | (13) | | $ | 67,704 | $ | (507)

During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we did not recognize significant credit losses and the ending allowance for credit losses was immaterial. See Note 7 for further details on other income (expense), net.
Equity Investments
The following discusses our marketable equity securities, non-marketable equity securities, gains and losses on marketable and non-marketable equity securities, as well as our equity securities accounted for under the equity method.
Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks or funds measured at fair value and classified within Level 1 and 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we use quoted prices for identical assets in active markets or inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets.
Our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies without readily determinable market values. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities is adjusted to fair value upon observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment (referred to as the measurement alternative). Non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured during the period based on observable transactions are classified within Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because we estimate the value based on valuation methods which may include a combination of the observable transaction price at the transaction date and other unobservable inputs including volatility, rights, and obligations of the securities we hold. The fair value of non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured due to impairment are classified within Level 3.
Gains and losses on marketable and non-marketable equity securities
Gains and losses reflected in other income (expense), net, for marketable and non-marketable equity securities are summarized below (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Net gain (loss) on equity securities sold during the period | $ | 1,339 | | | $ | 1,196 
Unrealized gain (loss) on equity securities held as of the end of the period | 4,253 | | | 11,184 | 
Total gain (loss) recognized in other income (expense), net | $ | 5,592 | | | $ | 12,380

In the table above, net gain (loss) on equity securities sold during the period reflects the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying value of the equity securities at the beginning of the period or the purchase date, if later. 
Cumulative net gains (losses) on equity securities sold during the period, which is summarized in the following table (in millions), represents the total net gains (losses) recognized after the initial purchase date of the equity security. While these net gains may have been reflected in periods prior to the period of sale, we believe they are important supplemental information as they reflect the economic net gains recognized on the securities sold during the period. Cumulative net gains are calculated as the difference between the sale price and the initial purchase price for the equity security sold during the period.

Alphabet Inc.


 | Equity Securities Sold During the Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Total sale price | $ | 4,767 | | | $ | 5,604
Total initial cost | 2,674 | | | 1,206 | 
Cumulative net gains(1) | $ | 2,093 | | | $ | 4,398

(1)Cumulative net gains excludes cumulative losses of $738 million resulting from our equity derivatives, which hedged the changes in fair value of certain marketable equity securities sold during the year ended December 31, 2021. The associated derivative liabilities arising from these losses were settled against our holdings of the underlying equity securities.
Carrying value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities
The carrying value is measured as the total initial cost plus the cumulative net gain (loss). The carrying values for marketable and non-marketable equity securities are summarized below (in millions):
 | As of December 31, 2020 
 | Marketable Equity Securities | | Non-Marketable Equity Securities | | Total
Total initial cost | $ | 2,227 | | | $ | 14,616 | | $ | 16,843
Cumulative net gain (loss)(1) | 3,631 | | | 4,277 | | | 7,908
Carrying value(2) | $ | 5,858 | | | $ | 18,893 | | $ | 24,751

(1)Non-marketable equity securities cumulative net gain (loss) is comprised of $6.1 billion gains and $1.9 billion losses (including impairment).
(2)The long-term portion of marketable equity securities (subject to long-term lock-up restrictions) of $429 million is included within other non-current assets.

 | As of December 31, 2021 
 | Marketable Equity Securities | | Non-Marketable Equity Securities | | Total
Total initial cost | $ | 4,211 | | | $ | 15,135 | | $ | 19,346
Cumulative net gain (loss)(1) | 3,587 | | | 12,436 | | | 16,023
Carrying value(2) | $ | 7,798 | | | $ | 27,571 | | $ | 35,369

(1)Non-marketable equity securities cumulative net gain (loss) is comprised of $14.1 billion gains and $1.7 billion losses (including impairment).
(2)The long-term portion of marketable equity securities (subject to long-term lock-up restrictions) of $1.4 billion is included within other non-current assets.
Marketable equity securities
The following table summarizes marketable equity securities measured at fair value by significant investment categories as of December 31, 2020 and 2021 (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2020 | | As of December 31, 2021 
 | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | Marketable EquitySecurities | | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | Marketable EquitySecurities
Level 1: | | | | | | | 
Money market funds | $ | 12,210 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 7,499 | $ | 0 
Marketable equity securities(1)(2) | 0 | | | 5,470 | | | 0 | | 7,447
 | 12,210 | | | 5,470 | | | 7,499 | | 7,447
Level 2: | | | | | | | 
Mutual funds | 0 | | | 388 | | | 0 | | 351 
Total | $ | 12,210 | | | $ | 5,858 | | $ | 7,499 | $ | 7,798

(1)    The balance as of December 31, 2020 and 2021 includes investments that were reclassified from non-marketable equity securities following the commencement of public market trading of the issuers or acquisition by public entities (certain investments are subject to short-term lock-up restrictions). 
(2)    As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, the long-term portion of marketable equity securities (subject to long-term lock-up restrictions) of $429 million and $1.4 billion, respectively, is included within other non-current assets.

Alphabet Inc.

Non-marketable equity securities
The following is a summary of unrealized gains and losses recorded in other income (expense), net, which are included as adjustments to the carrying value of non-marketable equity securities held as of the end of the period (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 
 | 2020 | | 2021 | | 
Unrealized gains on non-marketable equity securities | $ | 3,020 | | | $ | 9,971
Unrealized losses on non-marketable equity securities (including impairment) | (1,489) | | | (122) | | 
Total unrealized gain (loss) recognized on non-marketable equity securities | $ | 1,531 | | | $ | 9,849

During the year ended December 31, 2021, included in the $27.6 billion of non-marketable equity securities held as of the end of the period, $18.6 billion were measured at fair value resulting in a net unrealized gain of $9.8 billion.
Equity securities accounted for under the Equity Method
As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, equity securities accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of approximately $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Our share of gains and losses, including impairments, are included as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 7 for further details on other income (expense), net.
Derivative Financial Instruments
We enter into derivative instruments to manage risks relating to our ongoing business operations. The primary risk managed with derivative instruments is foreign exchange risk. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the risk that our cash flows, earnings, and investment in foreign subsidiaries will be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We also enter into derivative instruments to partially offset our exposure to other risks and enhance investment returns.
We recognize derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value and classify the derivatives primarily within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. We present our collar contracts (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) at net fair values where both the purchased and written options are with the same counterparty. For other derivative contracts, we present at gross fair values. We primarily record changes in the fair value in the Consolidated Statements of Income as either other income (expense), net, or revenues, or in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in AOCI, as discussed below.
We enter into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. Further, we enter into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral to be received or pledged when the net fair value of certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. Cash collateral received related to derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included in other current assets with a corresponding liability. Cash and non-cash collateral pledged related to derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included in other current assets.
Cash Flow Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward and option contracts (including collars) as cash flow hedges to hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. These contracts have maturities of 24 months or less.
Cash flow hedge amounts included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are deferred in AOCI and subsequently reclassified to revenue when the hedged item is recognized in earnings. We exclude the change in forward points and time value from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. The initial value of the excluded component is amortized on a straight-line basis over the life of the hedging instrument and recognized in revenues. The difference between fair value changes of the excluded component and the amount amortized to revenues is recorded in AOCI. If the hedged transactions become probable of not occurring, the corresponding amounts in AOCI are reclassified to other income (expense), net in the period of de-designation.
As of December 31, 2021, the net accumulated gain on our foreign currency cash flow hedges before tax effect was $518 million, which is expected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings within the next 12 months.
Fair Value Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward contracts as fair value hedges to hedge foreign currency risks for our investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fair value hedge amounts included in the 

Alphabet Inc.

assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in other income (expense), net, along with the offsetting gains and losses of the related hedged items. We exclude changes in forward points from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognize changes in the excluded component in other income (expense), net.
Net Investment Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward contracts as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to our investment in foreign subsidiaries. Net investment hedge amounts included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in AOCI along with the foreign currency translation adjustment. We exclude changes in forward points from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognize changes in the excluded component in other income (expense), net.
Other Derivatives
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist primarily of foreign currency forward contracts that we use to hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a subsidiary. Gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs, are recognized in other income (expense), net, along with the foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities. 
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to manage risks relating to interest rates, commodity prices, credit exposures and to enhance investment returns. Additionally, from time to time, we enter into derivatives to hedge the market price risk on certain of our marketable equity securities. Gains (losses) arising from these derivatives are reflected within the "other" component of other income (expense), net and the offsetting recognized gains (losses) on the marketable equity securities are reflected within the gain (loss) on equity securities, net component of other income (expense), net. See Note 7 for further details on other income (expense), net.
The gross notional amounts of outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments: | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | 
Cash flow hedges | $ | 10,187 | | $ | 16,362
Fair value hedges | $ | 1,569 | | $ | 2,556 
Net investment hedges | $ | 9,965 | | $ | 10,159
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments: | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | $ | 39,861 | | $ | 41,031
Other contracts | $ | 2,399 | | $ | 4,275 


Alphabet Inc.

The fair values of outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | | As of December 31, 2020 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other current and non-current assets | $ | 33 | | | $ | 316 | | $ | 349 
Other contracts | Other current and non-current assets | 0 | | | 16 | | | 16 
Total | | $ | 33 | | | $ | 332 | | $ | 365 
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 395 | | | $ | 185 | | $ | 580 
Other contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | 0 | | | 942 | | | 942
Total | | $ | 395 | | | $ | 1,127 | | $ | 1,522


 | | As of December 31, 2021 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other current and non-current assets | $ | 867 | | | $ | 42 | | $ | 909
Other contracts | Other current and non-current assets | 0 | | | 52 | | | 52 
Total | | $ | 867 | | | $ | 94 | | $ | 961
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 8 | | | $ | 452 | | $ | 460
Other contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | 0 | | | 121 | | | 121
Total | | $ | 8 | | | $ | 573 | | $ | 581


Alphabet Inc.

The gains (losses) on derivatives in cash flow hedging and net investment hedging relationships recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI) were summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in OCIon Derivatives Before Tax Effect
 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | $ | 38 | | | $ | 102 | | $ | 806 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | (14) | | | (37) | | | 48 
Derivatives in Net Investment Hedging Relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | 131 | | | (851) | | | 754
Total | $ | 155 | | | $ | (786) | | $ | 1,608

The effect of derivative instruments on income was summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income
 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021 
 | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net
Total amounts presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income in which the effects of cash flow and fair value hedges are recorded | $ | 161,857 | | | $ | 5,394 | | $ | 182,527 | | | $ | 6,858 | | | $ | 257,637 | $ | 12,020
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount of gains (losses) reclassified from AOCI to income | $ | 367 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 144 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 165 | $ | 0 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness recognized in earnings based on an amortization approach | 88 | | | 0 | | | 33 | | 0 | | | (16) | | | 0 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Fair Value Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Hedged items | 0 | | | (19) | | | 0 | | 18 | | | 0 | | | (95) | 
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments | 0 | | | 19 | | | 0 | | (18) | | | 0 | | | 95 | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 25 | | | 0 | | 4 | | | 0 | | | 8 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Net Investment Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 243 | | | 0 | | 151 | | | 0 | | | 82 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | 0 | | | (413) | | | 0 | 718 | | | 0 | | | (860) | 
Other Contracts | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | (906) | | | 0 | | | 101 | 
Total gains (losses) | $ | 455 | | | $ | (145) | | $ | 177 | | | $ | (33) | | | $ | 149 | $ | (669) 


Alphabet Inc.

Offsetting of Derivatives
The gross amounts of derivative instruments subject to master netting arrangements with various counterparties, and cash and non-cash collateral received and pledged under such agreements were as follows (in millions):
Offsetting of Assets

 | As of December 31, 2020 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 397 | | $ | (32) | | $ | 365 | | $ | (295) | (1) | $ | (16) | $ | 0 | $ | 54 
 | As of December 31, 2021 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 999 | | $ | (38) | | $ | 961 | | $ | (434) | (1) | $ | (394) | $ | (12) | $ | 121

(1)    The balances as of December 31, 2020 and 2021 were related to derivative liabilities which are allowed to be net settled against derivative assets in accordance with our master netting agreements.
Offsetting of Liabilities

 | As of December 31, 2020 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 1,554 | | $ | (32) | | $ | 1,522 | | $ | (295) | (2) | $ | (1) | $ | (943) | $ | 283
 | As of December 31, 2021 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 619 | | $ | (38) | | $ | 581 | | $ | (434) | (2) | $ | (4) | $ | (110) | $ | 33 

(2)    The balances as of December 31, 2020 and 2021 were related to derivative assets which are allowed to be net settled against derivative liabilities in accordance with our master netting agreements.
Note 4. Leases 
We have entered into operating lease agreements primarily for data centers, land and offices throughout the world with lease periods expiring between 2022 and 2063. 
Components of operating lease expense were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Operating lease cost | $ | 2,267 | | | $ | 2,699
Variable lease cost | 619 | | | 726 | 
Total operating lease cost | $ | 2,886 | | | $ | 3,425


Alphabet Inc.

Supplemental information related to operating leases was as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Cash payments for operating leases | $ | 2,004 | | $ | 2,489
New operating lease assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities | $ | 2,765 | | $ | 2,951

As of December 31, 2021, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease term of 8 years and a weighted average discount rate of 2.3%. Future lease payments under operating leases as of December 31, 2021 were as follows (in millions):

2022 | $ | 2,539 
2023 | 2,527 | 
2024 | 2,226 | 
2025 | 1,815 | 
2026 | 1,401 | 
Thereafter | 4,948 | 
Total future lease payments | 15,456 | 
Less imputed interest | (1,878) | 
Total lease liability balance | $ | 13,578

As of December 31, 2021, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with short-term and long-term future lease payments of $606 million and $5.2 billion, excluding purchase options, that are not yet recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between 2022 and 2026 with non-cancelable lease terms of 1 to 25 years.
Note 5. Variable Interest Entities 
Consolidated VIEs
We consolidate VIEs in which we hold a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. The results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are included in our consolidated financial statements.
 For certain consolidated VIEs, their assets are not available to us and their creditors do not have recourse to us. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, assets that can only be used to settle obligations of these VIEs were $5.7 billion and $6.0 billion, respectively, and the liabilities for which creditors only have recourse to the VIEs were $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively. 
Total noncontrolling interests (NCI), including redeemable noncontrolling interests (RNCI), in our consolidated subsidiaries was $3.9 billion and $4.3 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively. NCI and RNCI are included within additional paid-in capital. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was not material for any period presented and is included within the "other" component of other income (expense), net. See Note 7 for further details on other income (expense), net.
Waymo
In June 2021, Waymo, a self-driving technology development company and a consolidated VIE, completed an investment round of $2.5 billion, the majority of which represented investment from Alphabet. The investments from external parties were accounted for as equity transactions and resulted in recognition of noncontrolling interests. 
Unconsolidated VIEs
We have investments in VIEs in which we are not the primary beneficiary. These VIEs include private companies that are primarily early stage companies and certain renewable energy entities in which activities involve power generation using renewable sources. 
We have determined that the governance structures of these entities do not allow us to direct the activities that would significantly affect their economic performance. Therefore, we are not the primary beneficiary, and the results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are not included in our consolidated financial statements. We account for these investments as non-marketable equity securities or equity method investments. 
The maximum exposure of these unconsolidated VIEs is generally based on the current carrying value of the investments and any future funding commitments. We have determined that the single source of our exposure to these 

Alphabet Inc.

VIEs is our capital investments in them. The carrying value, and maximum exposure of these unconsolidated VIEs were $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2020 and $2.7 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2021.
Note 6. Debt 
Short-Term Debt
We have a debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper, which increased from $5.0 billion in September 2021. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2020 and 2021. 
Our short-term debt balance also includes the current portion of certain long-term debt.
Long-Term Debt
Total outstanding debt is summarized below (in millions, except percentages):

 | | | Effective Interest Rate | | As of December 31,
 | Maturity | Coupon Rate | | 2020 | | 2021 
Debt | | | | | | 
2011-2020 Notes Issuances | 2024 - 2060 | 0.45% - 3.38% | 0.57% - 3.38% | | $ | 14,000 | | $ | 13,000
Future finance lease payments, net(1) | | | | | 1,201 | | 2,086 | 
Total debt | | | | | 15,201 | | 15,086 | 
Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs | | | | | (169) | | (156) | 
Less: Current portion of Notes(2) | | | | | (999) | | — | 
Less: Current portion future finance lease payments, net(1)(2) | | | | | (101) | | (113) | 
Total long-term debt | | | | | $ | 13,932 | | $ | 14,817

(1)Net of imputed interest.
(2)Total current portion of long-term debt is included within other accrued expenses and current liabilities. See Note 7.
The notes in the table above are comprised of fixed-rate senior unsecured obligations and generally rank equally with each other. We may redeem the notes at any time in whole or in part at specified redemption prices. The effective interest rates are based on proceeds received with interest payable semi-annually.
The total estimated fair value of the outstanding notes, including the current portion, was approximately $14.0 billion and $12.4 billion as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2021, respectively. The fair value was determined based on observable market prices of identical instruments in less active markets and is categorized accordingly as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
As of December 31, 2021, the aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt, including finance lease liabilities, for each of the next five years and thereafter were as follows (in millions):

2022 | $ | 187 
2023 | 146 
2024 | 1,159 
2025 | 1,162 
2026 | 2,165 
Thereafter | 10,621
Total | $ | 15,440

Credit Facility
As of December 31, 2021, we have $10.0 billion of revolving credit facilities. No amounts were outstanding under the credit facilities as of December 31, 2020 and 2021.

Alphabet Inc.

In April 2021, we terminated the existing $4.0 billion revolving credit facilities, which were scheduled to expire in July 2023, and entered into two new revolving credit facilities in the amounts of $4.0 billion and $6.0 billion, which will expire in April 2022 and April 2026, respectively. The interest rates for the new credit facilities are determined based on a formula using certain market rates, as well as our progress toward the achievement of certain sustainability goals. No amounts have been borrowed under the new credit facilities.
Note 7. Supplemental Financial Statement Information 
Property and Equipment, Net
Property and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Land and buildings | $ | 49,732 | | | $ | 58,881
Information technology assets | 45,906 | | | 55,606 | 
Construction in progress | 23,111 | | | 23,171 | 
Leasehold improvements | 7,516 | | | 9,146 | 
Furniture and fixtures | 197 | | | 208 | 
Property and equipment, gross | 126,462 | | | 147,012 | 
Less: accumulated depreciation | (41,713) | | | (49,414) | 
Property and equipment, net | $ | 84,749 | | | $ | 97,599

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
European Commission fines(1) | $ | 10,409 | | | $ | 9,799 
Payables to brokers for unsettled investment trades | 754 | | | 397 | 
Accrued customer liabilities | 3,118 | | | 3,505 | 
Accrued purchases of property and equipment | 2,197 | | | 2,415 | 
Current operating lease liabilities | 1,694 | | | 2,189 | 
Other accrued expenses and current liabilities | 10,459 | | | 12,931 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | $ | 28,631 | | | $ | 31,236

(1)    Includes the effects of foreign exchange and interest. See Note 10 for further details.

Alphabet Inc.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Components of AOCI, net of income tax, were as follows (in millions):

 | Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Investments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges | | Total
Balance as of December 31, 2018 | $ | (1,884) | | | $ | (688) | | $ | 266 | $ | (2,306)
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 0 | | | (30) | | (30) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (119) | | | 1,611 | | | 36 | | 1,528 
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | (14) | | (14) 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (111) | | | (299) | | (410) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (119) | | | 1,500 | | | (277) | | 1,104 
Balance as of December 31, 2019 | (2,003) | | | 812 | | | (41) | | (1,232)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | 1,139 | | | 1,313 | | | 79 | | 2,531 
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | (37) | | (37) 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (513) | | | (116) | | (629) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 1,139 | | | 800 | | | (74) | | 1,865 
Balance as of December 31, 2020 | (864) | | | 1,612 | | | (115) | | 633 
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (1,442) | | | (1,312) | | | 668 | | (2,086)
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | 48 | | 48 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (64) | | | (154) | | (218) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,442) | | | (1,376) | | | 562 | | (2,256)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 | $ | (2,306) | | | $ | 236 | | $ | 447 | $ | (1,623)

The effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI were as follows (in millions):

 | | | Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI to the Consolidated Statements of Income | 
 | | | Year Ended December 31, | 
AOCI Components | | Location | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021 | 
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments | | | | | | 
 | | Other income (expense), net | $ | 149 | | | $ | 650 | | | $ | 82
 | | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | (38) | | | (137) | | | (18) | | 
 | | Net of income tax | 111 | | | 513 | | | 64 | | 
Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | Revenue | 367 | | | 144 | | | 165 | | 
Interest rate contracts | | Other income (expense), net | 6 | | | 6 | | | 6 | | 
 | | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | (74) | | | (34) | | | (17) | | 
 | | Net of income tax | 299 | | | 116 | | | 154 | | 
Total amount reclassified, net of income tax | $ | 410 | | | $ | 629 | | | $ | 218 | | 


Alphabet Inc.

Other Income (Expense), Net 
Components of other income (expense), net, were as follows (in millions): 

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
Interest income | $ | 2,427 | | | $ | 1,865 | | $ | 1,499 
Interest expense(1) | (100) | | | (135) | | | (346) 
Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net (2) | 103 | | | (344) | | | (240) 
Gain (loss) on debt securities, net | 149 | | | 725 | | | (110) 
Gain (loss) on equity securities, net | 2,649 | | | 5,592 | | | 12,380 
Performance fees | (326) | | | (609) | | | (1,908)
Income (loss) and impairment from equity method investments, net | 390 | | | 401 | | | 334 
Other(3) | 102 | | | (637) | | | 411 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 5,394 | | | $ | 6,858 | | $ | 12,020

(1)    Interest expense is net of interest capitalized of $167 million, $218 million, and $163 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021, respectively.
(2)    Our foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net, is primarily related to the forward points for our foreign currency hedging contracts and foreign exchange transaction gains and losses from the conversion of the transaction currency to the functional currency, offset by the foreign currency hedging contracts' losses and gains.
(3)    During the year ended December 31, 2020, we entered into derivatives that hedged the changes in fair value of certain marketable equity securities, which resulted in losses of $902 million and gains of $92 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively. The offsetting recognized gains and losses on the marketable equity securities are reflected in Gain (loss) on equity securities, net.
Note 8. Acquisitions 
Fitbit
In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Other Acquisitions 
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate.

Alphabet Inc.

Note 9. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
Goodwill
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021 were as follows (in millions):

 | Google | | Google Services | | Google Cloud | | Other Bets | Total
Balance as of December 31, 2019 | $ | 19,921 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | $ | 703 | $ | 20,624
Acquisitions | 204 | | | 53 | | | 189 | | 0 | 446 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | 46 | | | 56 | | | 5 | | (2) | 105 | 
Allocation in the fourth quarter of 2020(1) | (20,171) | | | 18,408 | | | 1,763 | | 0 | 0 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2020 | 0 | | | 18,517 | | | 1,957 | | 701 | 21,175 | 
Acquisitions | 0 | | | 1,325 | | | 382 | | 103 | 1,810 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | 0 | | | (16) | | | (2) | | (11) | (29) | 
Balance as of December 31, 2021 | $ | 0 | | | $ | 19,826 | | $ | 2,337 | $ | 793 | $ | 22,956

(1)Represents reallocation of goodwill as a result of our change in segments in the fourth quarter of 2020. See Note 15 for further details.
Other Intangible Assets
Information regarding purchased intangible assets was as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2020
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingAmount
Patents and developed technology | $ | 4,639 | | | $ | 3,649 | | $ | 990 
Customer relationships | 266 | | | 49 | | | 217 
Trade names and other | 624 | | | 461 | | | 163 
Total definite-lived intangible assets | 5,529 | | | 4,159 | | | 1,370
Indefinite-lived intangible assets | 75 | | | 0 | | | 75 
Total intangible assets | $ | 5,604 | | | $ | 4,159 | | $ | 1,445


 | As of December 31, 2021
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingValue
Patents and developed technology | $ | 4,786 | | | $ | 4,112 | | $ | 674 
Customer relationships | 506 | | | 140 | | | 366 
Trade names and other | 534 | | | 295 | | | 239 
Total definite-lived intangible assets | 5,826 | | | 4,547 | | | 1,279
Indefinite-lived intangible assets | 138 | | | 0 | | | 138 
Total intangible assets | $ | 5,964 | | | $ | 4,547 | | $ | 1,417

Patents and developed technology, customer relationships, and trade names and other have weighted-average remaining useful lives of 0.7 years, 3.5 years, and 4.5 years, respectively. 
For all intangible assets acquired and purchased during the year ended December 31, 2021, patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of 4.1 years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of 4.3 years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of 9.9 years.
Amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets was $795 million, $774 million, and $875 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021, respectively.

Alphabet Inc.

As of December 31, 2021, expected amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets for each of the next five years and thereafter was as follows (in millions):

2022 | $ | 537 
2023 | 255 | 
2024 | 226 | 
2025 | 98 | 
2026 | 61 | 
Thereafter | 102 | 
 | $ | 1,279

Note 10. Contingencies 
Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, including to facilitate transactions in our services and products and corporate activities, we indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network partners, customers of Google Cloud offerings, lessors and service providers with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.
It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, we have a limited history of prior indemnification claims, and the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 
As of December 31, 2021, we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible. 
Legal Matters
Antitrust Investigations
On November 30, 2010, the EC's Directorate General for Competition opened an investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against us. 
On June 27, 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017) fine. On September 11, 2017, we appealed the EC decision to the General Court, and on September 27, 2017, we implemented product changes to bring shopping ads into compliance with the EC's decision. We recognized a charge of $2.7 billion for the fine in the second quarter of 2017. On November 10, 2021, the General Court rejected our appeal, and we subsequently filed an appeal with the European Court of Justice on January 20, 2022.
On July 18, 2018, the EC announced its decision that certain provisions in Google’s Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018) fine and directed the termination of the conduct at issue. On October 9, 2018, we appealed the EC decision. On October 29, 2018, we implemented changes to certain of our Android distribution practices. We recognized a charge of $5.1 billion for the fine in the second quarter of 2018.
On March 20, 2019, the EC announced its decision that certain contractual provisions in agreements that Google had with AdSense for Search partners infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a fine of €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019) and directed actions related to AdSense for Search partners' agreements, which we implemented prior to the decision. On June 4, 2019, we appealed the EC decision. We recognized a charge of $1.7 billion for the fine in the first quarter of 2019.
While each EC decision is under appeal, we included the fines in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines.

Alphabet Inc.

From time to time we are subject to formal and informal inquiries and investigations on competition matters by regulatory authorities in the U.S., Europe, and other jurisdictions. In August 2019, we began receiving civil investigative demands from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) requesting information and documents relating to our prior antitrust investigations and certain aspects of our business. The DOJ and a number of state Attorneys General filed a lawsuit on October 20, 2020 alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws relating to Search and Search advertising. Separately, on December 16, 2020, a number of state Attorneys General filed an antitrust complaint against Google in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws as well as state deceptive trade laws relating to its advertising technology. On June 22, 2021, the EC opened a formal investigation into Google's advertising technology business practices. On July 7, 2021, a number of state Attorneys General filed an antitrust complaint against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that Google’s operation of Android and Google Play violated U.S. antitrust laws and state antitrust and consumer protection laws. We believe these complaints are without merit and will defend ourselves vigorously. The DOJ and state Attorneys General continue their investigations into certain aspects of our business. We continue to cooperate with federal and state regulators in the U.S., the EC and other regulators around the world.
Patent and Intellectual Property Claims
We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe others' intellectual property rights. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services. As a result, we may have to change our business practices and develop non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. In addition, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) has increasingly become an important forum to litigate intellectual property disputes because an ultimate loss in an ITC action can result in a prohibition on importing infringing products into the U.S. Because the U.S. is an important market, a prohibition on importation could have an adverse effect on us, including preventing us from importing many important products into the U.S. or necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features of our products.
Furthermore, many of our agreements with our customers and partners require us to indemnify them against certain intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. In addition, our customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business.
In 2010, Oracle America, Inc. (Oracle) brought a copyright lawsuit against Google in the Northern District of California, alleging that Google's Android operating system infringes Oracle's copyrights related to certain Java application programming interfaces (Java APIs). After trial, final judgment was entered by the district court in favor of Google on June 8, 2016, and the court decided post-trial motions in favor of Google. Oracle appealed and on March 27, 2018, the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals reversed and remanded the case for a trial on damages. On May 29, 2018, we filed a petition for a rehearing at the Federal Circuit, and on August 28, 2018, the Federal Circuit denied the petition. On January 24, 2019, we filed a petition to the U.S. Supreme Court to review the case. On April 29, 2019, the Supreme Court requested the views of the Solicitor General regarding our petition. On September 27, 2019, the Solicitor General recommended denying our petition, and we provided our response on October 16, 2019. On November 15, 2019, the Supreme Court granted our petition and made a decision to review the case. The Supreme Court heard oral arguments in our case on October 7, 2020. On April 5, 2021, the Supreme Court reversed the Federal Circuit's ruling and found that Google’s use of the Java APIs was a fair use as a matter of law. The Supreme Court remanded the case to the Federal Circuit for further proceedings in conformity with the Supreme Court opinion. On May 14, 2021, the Federal Circuit entered an order affirming the district court’s final judgment in favor of Google. On June 21, 2021, the Federal Circuit issued a mandate returning the case to the district court, and the case is now concluded. 
Other 
We are also regularly subject to claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent decrees involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. For example, we have a number of privacy investigations and suits ongoing in multiple jurisdictions. Such claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent decrees could result in substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing auditing and monitoring obligations, changes to our products and services, alterations to our business models and operations, and collateral related civil litigation or other adverse consequences, all of which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 

Alphabet Inc.

Certain of these outstanding matters include speculative, substantial or indeterminate monetary amounts. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred, and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. We evaluate developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood of there being and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters.
With respect to our outstanding matters, based on our current knowledge, we believe that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss will not, either individually or in aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, the outcome of such matters is inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties.
We expense legal fees in the period in which they are incurred.
Non-Income Taxes
We are under audit by various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to non-income tax matters. The subject matter of non-income tax audits primarily arises from disputes on the tax treatment and tax rate applied to the sale of our products and services in these jurisdictions and the tax treatment of certain employee benefits. We accrue non-income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and judicial process in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome may be materially different from our expectations.
For information regarding income tax contingencies, see Note 14.
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity 
Preferred Stock
Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, no shares were issued or outstanding.
Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock
Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock.
Share Repurchases
In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. 
In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million and 20.3 million aggregate shares for $31.1 billion and $50.3 billion, respectively. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion.
Stock Split Effected in Form of Stock Dividend (“Stock Split”)
On February 1, 2022, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had approved and declared a 20-for-one stock split in the form of a one-time special stock dividend on each share of the Company’s Class A, Class B, and Class C stock. The Stock Split is subject to stockholder approval of an amendment to the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock to accommodate the Stock Split.

Alphabet Inc.

If approval is obtained, each of the Company’s stockholders of record at the close of business on July 1, 2022 (the “Record Date”), will receive, after the close of business on July 15, 2022, a dividend of 19 additional shares of the same class of stock for every share held by such stockholder as of the Record Date.
Note 12. Net Income Per Share
We compute net income per share of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares and the effect of potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist of restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. The computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A stock assumes the conversion of Class B stock, while the diluted net income per share of Class B stock does not assume the conversion of those shares.
The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, of the holders of our Class A, Class B, and Class C stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Furthermore, there are a number of safeguards built into our certificate of incorporation, as well as Delaware law, which preclude our Board of Directors from declaring or paying unequal per share dividends on our Class A, Class B, and Class C stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments to our certificate of incorporation which would have the effect of adversely altering the rights, powers, or preferences of a given class of stock must be approved by the class of stock adversely affected by the proposed amendment. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that before any such amendment may be put to a stockholder vote, it must be approved by the unanimous consent of our Board of Directors. As a result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based on the contractual participation rights of the Class A, Class B, and Class C stock as if the earnings for the year had been distributed. As the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated on a proportionate basis. 
In the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020 and 2021, the net income per share amounts are the same for Class A, Class B, and Class C stock because the holders of each class are entitled to equal per share dividends or distributions in liquidation in accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Alphabet Inc.
The following tables set forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock (in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 14,846 | | | $ | 2,307 | | $ | 17,190
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 299,402 | | | 46,527 | | | 346,667
Basic net income per share | $ | 49.59 | | | $ | 49.59 | | $ | 49.59 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 14,846 | | | $ | 2,307 | | $ | 17,190
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 2,307 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (126) | | | (20) | | | 126 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 17,027 | | | $ | 2,287 | | $ | 17,316
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 299,402 | | | 46,527 | | | 346,667
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A shares outstanding | 46,527 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 413 | | | 0 | | | 5,547 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 346,342 | | | 46,527 | | | 352,214
Diluted net income per share | $ | 49.16 | | | $ | 49.16 | | $ | 49.16 


Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 17,733 | | | $ | 2,732 | | $ | 19,804
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 299,815 | | | 46,182 | | | 334,819
Basic net income per share | $ | 59.15 | | | $ | 59.15 | | $ | 59.15 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 17,733 | | | $ | 2,732 | | $ | 19,804
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 2,732 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (180) | | | (25) | | | 180 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 20,285 | | | $ | 2,707 | | $ | 19,984
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 299,815 | | | 46,182 | | | 334,819
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A shares outstanding | 46,182 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 87 | | | 0 | | | 6,125 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 346,084 | | | 46,182 | | | 340,944
Diluted net income per share | $ | 58.61 | | | $ | 58.61 | | $ | 58.61 


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 34,200 | | | $ | 5,174 | | $ | 36,659
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 300,310 | | | 45,430 | | | 321,910
Basic net income per share | $ | 113.88 | | | $ | 113.88 | | $ | 113.88
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 34,200 | | | $ | 5,174 | | $ | 36,659
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 5,174 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (581) | | | (77) | | | 581 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 38,793 | | | $ | 5,097 | | $ | 37,240
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 300,310 | | | 45,430 | | | 321,910
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A shares outstanding | 45,430 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 15 | | | 0 | | | 10,009 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 345,755 | | | 45,430 | | | 331,919
Diluted net income per share | $ | 112.20 | | | $ | 112.20 | | $ | 112.20


Alphabet Inc.

Note 13. Compensation Plans 
Stock Plans
Our stock plans include the Alphabet Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan, the Alphabet 2021 Stock Plan and Other Bet stock-based plans. Under our stock plans, RSUs and other types of awards may be granted. An RSU award is an agreement to issue shares of our Class C stock at the time the award vests. RSUs generally vest over four years contingent upon employment on the vesting date.
As of December 31, 2021, there were 37,479,707 shares of Class C stock reserved for future issuance under the Alphabet 2021 Stock Plan.
Stock-Based Compensation
For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021, total stock-based compensation expense was $11.7 billion, $13.4 billion, and $15.7 billion, including amounts associated with awards we expect to settle in Alphabet stock of $10.8 billion, $12.8 billion, and $15.0 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021, we recognized tax benefits on total stock-based compensation expense, which are reflected in the provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income, of $1.8 billion, $2.7 billion, and $3.1 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021, tax benefit realized related to awards vested or exercised during the period was $2.2 billion, $3.6 billion, and $5.9 billion, respectively. These amounts do not include the indirect effects of stock-based awards, which primarily relate to the R&D tax credit.
Stock-Based Award Activities
The following table summarizes the activities for unvested Alphabet RSUs for the year ended December 31, 2021:

 | Unvested Restricted Stock Units
 | Number of Shares | Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Value
Unvested as of December 31, 2020 | 19,288,793 | | $ | 1,262.13
Granted | 10,582,700 | | $ | 1,949.16
Vested | (11,209,486) | | $ | 1,345.98
Forfeited/canceled | (1,767,294) | | $ | 1,425.48
Unvested as of December 31, 2021 | 16,894,713 | | $ | 1,626.13

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020 was $1,092.36 and $1,407.97, respectively. Total fair value of RSUs, as of their respective vesting dates, during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021 were $15.2 billion, $17.8 billion, and $28.8 billion, respectively.
As of December 31, 2021, there was $25.8 billion of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested employee RSUs. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years. 
401(k) Plans
We have two 401(k) Savings Plans that qualify as deferred salary arrangements under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under these 401(k) Plans, matching contributions are based upon the amount of the employees’ contributions subject to certain limitations. We recognized expense of approximately $724 million, $855 million, and $916 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021, respectively.
Note 14. Income Taxes 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes consisted of the following (in millions):
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
Domestic operations | $ | 16,426 | | | $ | 37,576 | | $ | 77,016
Foreign operations | 23,199 | | | 10,506 | | | 13,718
Total | $ | 39,625 | | | $ | 48,082 | | $ | 90,734


Alphabet Inc.

Provision for income taxes consisted of the following (in millions):
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
Current: | | | | | 
Federal and state | $ | 2,424 | | | $ | 4,789 | | $ | 10,126
Foreign | 2,713 | | | 1,687 | | | 2,692 
Total | 5,137 | | | 6,476 | | | 12,818
Deferred: | | | | | 
Federal and state | 286 | | | 1,552 | | | 2,018 
Foreign | (141) | | | (215) | | | (135) 
Total | 145 | | | 1,337 | | | 1,883 
Provision for income taxes | $ | 5,282 | | | $ | 7,813 | | $ | 14,701

The reconciliation of federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate was as follows:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
U.S. federal statutory tax rate | 21.0 | % | | 21.0 | % | 21.0 | %
Foreign income taxed at different rates | (4.9) | | | (0.3) | | 0.2 | 
Foreign-derived intangible income deduction | (0.7) | | | (3.0) | | (2.5) | 
Stock-based compensation expense | (0.7) | | | (1.7) | | (2.5) | 
Federal research credit | (2.5) | | | (2.3) | | (1.6) | 
Deferred tax asset valuation allowance | 0.0 | | | 1.4 | | 0.6 | 
State and local income taxes | 1.1 | | | 1.1 | | 1.0 | 
Effective tax rate | 13.3 | % | | 16.2 | % | 16.2 | %

Our effective tax rate for 2019 was affected significantly by earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions with statutory tax rates lower than the federal statutory tax rate because substantially all of the income from foreign operations was earned by an Irish subsidiary. As of December 31, 2019, we have simplified our corporate legal entity structure and now license intellectual property from the U.S. that was previously licensed from Bermuda resulting in an increase in the portion of our income earned in the U.S.
On July 27, 2015, the U.S. Tax Court, in an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, invalidated the portion of the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section 482 requiring related-party participants in a cost sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. The U.S. Tax Court issued the final decision on December 28, 2015. As a result of that decision, we recorded a tax benefit related to the anticipated reimbursement of cost share payment for previously shared stock-based compensation costs.
On June 7, 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit overturned the 2015 Tax Court decision in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, and upheld the portion of the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section 482 requiring related-party participants in a cost sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. As a result of the Ninth Circuit court decision, our cumulative net tax benefit of $418 million related to previously shared stock-based compensation costs was reversed in the year ended December 31, 2019.
In 2020, there was an increase in valuation allowance for net deferred tax assets that are not likely to be realized relating to certain of our Other Bets.

Alphabet Inc.

Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Deferred tax assets: | | | 
Accrued employee benefits | $ | 580 | | | $ | 549 
Accruals and reserves not currently deductible | 1,049 | | | 1,816 | 
Tax credits | 3,723 | | | 5,179 | 
Net operating losses | 1,085 | | | 1,790 | 
Operating leases | 2,620 | | | 2,503 | 
Intangible assets | 1,525 | | | 2,034 | 
Other | 981 | | | 925 | 
Total deferred tax assets | 11,563 | | | 14,796 | 
Valuation allowance | (4,823) | | | (7,129) | 
Total deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance | 6,740 | | | 7,667 | 
Deferred tax liabilities: | | | 
Property and equipment, net | (3,382) | | | (5,237) | 
Net investment gains | (1,901) | | | (3,229) | 
Operating leases | (2,354) | | | (2,228) | 
Other | (1,580) | | | (946) | 
Total deferred tax liabilities | (9,217) | | | (11,640) | 
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) | $ | (2,477) | | | $ | (3,973)

As of December 31, 2021, our federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $5.6 billion, $4.6 billion, and $1.7 billion respectively. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2023, foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2025 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2028. It is more likely than not that certain net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized; therefore, we have recorded a valuation allowance against them. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various annual limitations under the tax laws of the different jurisdictions.
As of December 31, 2021, our California R&D carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $5.0 billion that can be carried over indefinitely. We believe the state tax credit is not likely to be realized.
As of December 31, 2021, our investment tax credit carryforwards for state income tax purposes were approximately $700 million and will begin to expire in 2025. We use the flow-through method of accounting for investment tax credits. We believe this tax credit is not likely to be realized.
As of December 31, 2021, we maintained a valuation allowance with respect to California deferred tax assets, certain federal net operating losses, certain state tax credits, net deferred tax assets relating to certain Other Bets, and certain foreign net operating losses that we believe are not likely to be realized. We continue to reassess the remaining valuation allowance quarterly, and if future evidence allows for a partial or full release of the valuation allowance, a tax benefit will be recorded accordingly. 

Alphabet Inc.

Uncertain Tax Positions
The following table summarizes the activity related to our gross unrecognized tax benefits (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
Beginning gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 4,652 | | | $ | 3,377 | | $ | 3,837
Increases related to prior year tax positions | 938 | | | 372 | | | 529 
Decreases related to prior year tax positions | (143) | | | (557) | | | (263)
Decreases related to settlement with tax authorities | (2,886) | | | (45) | | | (329)
Increases related to current year tax positions | 816 | | | 690 | | | 1,384
Ending gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 3,377 | | | $ | 3,837 | | $ | 5,158

The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $3.4 billion, $3.8 billion, and $5.2 billion as of December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021, respectively, of which $2.3 billion, $2.6 billion, and $3.7 billion, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate, respectively. 
As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, we accrued $222 million and $270 million in interest and penalties in provision for income taxes, respectively.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions. Our two major tax jurisdictions are the U.S. federal and Ireland. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS is currently examining our 2016 through 2018 tax returns. We have also received tax assessments in multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. We continue to defend any and all such claims as presented.
The tax years 2014 through 2020 remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits in various other jurisdictions that are not material to our financial statements.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the effect, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
We believe that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management's expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Although the timing of resolution, settlement, and closure of audits is not certain, it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits from certain U.S. federal, state and non U.S. tax positions could decrease by approximately $2.0 billion in the next 12 months. Positions that may be resolved include various U.S. and non-U.S. matters.
Note 15. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas 
We report our segment results as Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets:
•Google Services includes products and services such as ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Google Services generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps and in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products such as YouTube Premium and YouTube TV.
•Google Cloud includes Google’s infrastructure and platform services, collaboration tools, and other services for enterprise customers. Google Cloud generates revenues from fees received for Google Cloud Platform services, Google Workspace collaboration tools and other enterprise services.
•Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of health technology and internet services. 
Revenues, certain costs, such as costs associated with content and traffic acquisition, certain engineering activities, and hardware, as well as certain operating expenses are directly attributable to our segments. Due to the integrated nature of Alphabet, other costs and expenses, such as technical infrastructure and office facilities, are managed centrally at a consolidated level. The associated costs, including depreciation and impairment, are allocated to operating segments as a service cost generally based on usage or headcount.

Alphabet Inc.

Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such as finance and legal, including certain fines and settlements, as well as costs associated with certain shared R&D activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related to revenue are included in corporate costs. 
Our operating segments are not evaluated using asset information.
Information about segments during the periods presented were as follows (in millions). For comparative purposes, amounts in prior periods have been recast:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 2021
Revenues: | | | | | 
Google Services | $ | 151,825 | | | $ | 168,635 | | $ | 237,529
Google Cloud | 8,918 | | | 13,059 | | | 19,206 
Other Bets | 659 | | | 657 | | | 753 
Hedging gains (losses) | 455 | | | 176 | | | 149 
Total revenues | $ | 161,857 | | | $ | 182,527 | | $ | 257,637
Operating income (loss): | | | | | 
Google Services | $ | 48,999 | | | $ | 54,606 | | $ | 91,855 
Google Cloud | (4,645) | | | (5,607) | | | (3,099)
Other Bets | (4,824) | | | (4,476) | | | (5,281)
Corporate costs, unallocated(1) | (5,299) | | | (3,299) | | | (4,761)
Total income from operations | $ | 34,231 | | | $ | 41,224 | | $ | 78,714 

(1)    Corporate costs, unallocated includes a fine and legal settlement totaling $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019.
For revenues by geography, see Note 2.
The following table presents long-lived assets by geographic area, which includes property and equipment, net and operating lease assets (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2020 | | 2021
Long-lived assets: | | | 
United States | $ | 69,315 | | | $ | 80,207 
International | 27,645 | | | 30,351 | 
Total long-lived assets | $ | 96,960 | | | $ | 110,558


Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2021, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed at a reasonable assurance level and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We rely extensively on information systems to manage our business and summarize and report operating results. In 2019, we began a multi-year implementation of a new global ERP system, which will replace much of our existing core financial systems. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain our financial records, enhance the flow of financial information, improve data management and provide timely information to our management team. The implementation is expected to continue in phases over the next few years. We completed the implementation of certain of our subledgers, which included changes to our processes, procedures and internal controls over financial reporting during the second quarter of 2021. There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2021 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. However, as the phased implementation of the new ERP system continues, we will change our processes and procedures, which in turn, could result in changes to our internal control over financial reporting. As such changes occur, we will evaluate quarterly whether such changes materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.
As a result of COVID-19, our global workforce continued to operate primarily in a work from home environment for the quarter ended December 31, 2021. While we continue to evolve our work model in response to the uneven effects of the ongoing pandemic around the world, we believe that our internal controls over financial reporting continue to be effective. We have continued to re-evaluate and refine our financial reporting process to provide reasonable assurance that we could report our financial results accurately and in a timely manner.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2021. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with our Audit and Compliance Committee. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs.
ITEM 9B.OTHER INFORMATION
None.

Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS
Not applicable.

Alphabet Inc.

PART III
ITEM 10.DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement for the 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 (2022 Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports” in the 2022 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 11.EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the 2022 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the 2022 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 13.CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Director Independence” in the 2022 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 14.PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in the 2022 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Alphabet Inc.

PART IV
ITEM 15.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
We have filed the following documents as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
1. Consolidated Financial Statements

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 46
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 

2. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
The table below details the activity of the allowance for credit losses and sales credits for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020 and 2021 (in millions):

 | Balance atBeginning of Year | | Additions | Usage | | Balance atEnd of Year
Year ended December 31, 2019 | $ | 729 | | $ | 1,481 | | $ | (1,457) | $ | 753 
Year ended December 31, 2020 | $ | 753 | | $ | 2,013 | | $ | (1,422) | $ | 1,344
Year ended December 31, 2021 | $ | 1,344 | | $ | 2,092 | | $ | (2,047) | $ | 1,389


Note: | Additions to the allowance for credit losses are charged to expense. Additions to the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues.

All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or the required information is otherwise included.
3. Exhibits
ExhibitNumber | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | Date 
2.01 | | Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 2, 2015, by and among Google Inc., the Registrant and Maple Technologies Inc. | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
3.01 | | Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated October 2, 2015 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
3.02 | | Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, dated October 21, 2020 | Current Report on Form 8-K/A (File No. 001-37580) | October 27, 2020
4.01 | | Specimen Class A Common Stock certificate | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.02 | | Specimen Class C Capital Stock certificate | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.03 | | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.04 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Larry Page and certain of his affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.05 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Sergey Brin and certain of his affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.06 | * | Joinder Agreement, dated December 31, 2021, among the Registrant, Sergey Brin and certain of his affiliates | | 


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | Date 
4.07 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Eric E. Schmidt and certain of its affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.08 | | Class C Undertaking, dated October 2, 2015, executed by the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.09 | | Indenture, dated February 12, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209510) | February 12, 2016
4.10 | | Registrant Registration Rights Agreement dated December 14, 2015 | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209518) | February 12, 2016
4.11 | | First Supplemental Indenture, dated April 27, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | April 27, 2016 
4.12 | | Form of the Registrant’s 3.375% Notes due 2024 (included in Exhibit 4.11) | | 
4.13 | | Form of the Registrant’s 1.998% Note due 2026 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 9, 2016 
4.14 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 0.450% notes due 2025 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.15 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 0.800% notes due 2027 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.16 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 1.100% notes due 2030 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.17 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 1.900% notes due 2040 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.18 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 2.050% notes due 2050 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.19 | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 2.250% notes due 2060 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.20 | * | Description of Registrant’s Securities | | 
10.01 | u | Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between the Registrant, its affiliates and its directors and officers | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.02 | u | Compensation Plan Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.03 | u | Director Arrangements Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.04 | u | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.05 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan, as amended | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-50726) | June 7, 2011 
10.05.1 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Form of Google Stock Option Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | March 30, 2005 
10.05.2 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Form of Google Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | March 30, 2005 
10.05.3 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Amendment to Stock Option Agreements | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-142243) | April 20, 2007 
10.06 | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | June 5, 2020 


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date 
10.06.1 | u | | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 001-37580) | February 4, 2020
10.06.2 | u | | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan - Performance Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 001-37580) | February 4, 2020
10.07 | u | | Alphabet Inc. 2021 Stock Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (file No. 001-37580) | June 4, 2021 
10.07.1 | u | | Alphabet Inc. 2021 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (file No. 001-37580) | July 28, 2021 
10.07.2 | u | * | Alphabet Inc. 2021 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet 2022 Non-CEO Performance Stock Unit Agreement | | 
10.08 | u | * | Alphabet Inc. Company Bonus Plan | | 
14.01 | | | Code of Conduct of the Registrant as amended on September 21, 2017 | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 001-37580) | February 6, 2018
21.01 | * | | Subsidiaries of the Registrant | | 
23.01 | * | | Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | | 
24.01 | * | | Power of Attorney (incorporated by reference to the signature page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) | | 
31.01 | * | | Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
31.02 | * | | Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
32.01 | ‡ | | Certifications of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
101.INS | * | | Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document | | 
101.SCH | * | | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document | | 
101.CAL | * | | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document | | 
101.DEF | * | | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document | | 
101.LAB | * | | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document | | 
101.PRE | * | | Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document | | 
104 | | | Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document and contained in Exhibit 101) | | 


Alphabet Inc.

_________________
u | Indicates management compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement.
* | Filed herewith. 
‡ | Furnished herewith. 

ITEM 16.FORM 10-K SUMMARY
None.

Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 1.BUSINESS
Overview
As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history, inspiring us to tackle big problems, and invest in moonshots like artificial intelligence ("AI") research and quantum computing. We continue this work under the leadership of Sundar Pichai, who has served as CEO of Google since 2015 and as CEO of Alphabet since 2019. 
Alphabet is a collection of businesses — the largest of which is Google — which we report as two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud. We report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Our Other Bets include earlier stage technologies that are further afield from our core Google business. We take a long term view and manage the portfolio of Other Bets with the discipline and rigor needed to deliver long-term returns. Our Alphabet structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence. 
Access and technology for everyone
The Internet is one of the world’s most powerful equalizers, capable of propelling new ideas and people forward. Our mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful is as relevant today as it was when we were founded in 1998. Since then, we’ve evolved from a company that helps people find answers to a company that helps you get things done. We’re focused on building an even more helpful Google for everyone, and we aspire to give everyone the tools they need to increase their knowledge, health, happiness and success.
Across Alphabet, we're focused on continually innovating in areas where technology can have an impact on people’s lives. Every year, there are trillions of searches on Google, and we continue to invest deeply in AI and other technologies to ensure the most helpful Search experience possible. People come to YouTube for entertainment, information and opportunities to learn something new. And Google Assistant offers the best way to get things done seamlessly across different devices, providing intelligent help throughout your day, no matter where you are.
Since the pandemic began, our teams have built new features to help users go about their daily lives, and to support businesses working to serve their customers during an uncertain time. In conjunction with Apple, we launched Exposure Notification apps that are being used by local governments globally. Our COVID-19 Community Mobility Reports are used by public health agencies and researchers around the globe, and we’ve committed hundreds of millions of dollars to help small businesses through a combination of small business loans, grants and ad credits. Importantly, we've made authoritative content a key focus area across both Google Search and YouTube to help users search for trusted public health information. 
Our Other Bets are also pursuing initiatives with similar goals. For instance, as a part of our efforts in the Metro Phoenix area, Waymo is working toward our goal of making transportation safer and easier for everyone while Verily is developing tools and platforms to improve health outcomes.
Moonshots
Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. We continue to look toward the future and continue to invest for the long-term. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in because they are the key to our long-term success.
The power of machine learning
Across the company, machine learning and AI are increasingly driving many of our latest innovations. Our investments in machine learning over the past decade have enabled us to build products that are smarter and more helpful. For example, a huge breakthrough in natural language understanding, called BERT, now improves results for almost every English language search query.
DeepMind made a significant AI-powered breakthrough, solving a 50-year-old protein folding challenge, which will help us better understand one of life’s fundamental building blocks, and will enable researchers to tackle new and difficult problems, from fighting diseases to environmental sustainability.

Alphabet Inc.

Google
For reporting purposes, Google comprises two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud.
Google Services
Serving our users
We have always been a company committed to building helpful products that can improve the lives of millions of people. Our product innovations have made our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google Services' core products and platforms include Android, Chrome, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google Play, Search, and YouTube, each with broad and growing adoption by users around the world.
Our products and services have come a long way since the company was founded more than two decades ago. Rather than the ten blue links in our early search results, users can now get direct answers to their questions using their computer, mobile device, or their own voice, making it quicker, easier and more natural to find what you're looking for. 
This drive to make information more accessible and helpful has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content, on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. With the migration to mobile, people are consuming more digital content by watching more videos, playing more games, listening to more music, reading more books, and using more apps than ever before. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to find great digital content.
Fueling all of these great digital experiences are powerful platforms and hardware. That’s why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, Chrome operating system, as well as growing our family of great hardware devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful, make your life easier, and get better over time, by combining the best of our AI, software, and hardware. This is reflected in our latest generation of hardware products like Pixel 4a, Pixel 4a 5G and Pixel 5 phones, Chromecast with Google TV and the Google Nest Hub smart display. Creating beautiful products that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long run.
Key to building helpful products for users is our commitment to privacy, security and user choice. As the Internet evolves, we continue to invest in keeping data safe, including enhanced malware features in Chrome and improvements to auto-delete controls that will automatically delete web and app searches after 18 months. 
How we make money
Our advertising products deliver relevant ads at just the right time, to give people useful commercial information, regardless of the device they’re using. We also provide advertisers with tools that help them better attribute and measure their advertising campaigns. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses, and we offer a wide range of products across devices and formats. Google Services generates revenues primarily by delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising.
•Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Most of our performance advertisers pay us when a user engages in their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. Our ads tools allow performance advertisers to create simple text-based ads that appear on Google Search & other properties, YouTube and the properties of Google Network Members. In addition, Google Network Members use our platforms to display relevant ads on their properties, generating revenues when site visitors view or click on the ads. We continue to invest in our advertising programs and make significant upgrades.
•Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns.
We have built a world-class ad technology platform for advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. We also seek to improve the measurability of advertising so advertisers know when their campaigns are effective.
We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, ranging 

Alphabet Inc.

from filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions of bad ads from our systems every year to closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blocklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content.
We continue to look to the future and are making long-term investments that will grow revenues beyond advertising, including Google Play, hardware, and YouTube. We are also investing in research efforts in AI and quantum computing to foster innovation across our businesses and create new opportunities.
Google Cloud
Google was a company built in the cloud. We continue to invest in infrastructure, security, data management, analytics and AI. We see significant opportunity in helping businesses utilize these strengths with features like data migration, modern development environments and machine learning tools to provide enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace (formerly known as G Suite). Google Cloud Platform enables developers to build, test, and deploy applications on its highly scalable and reliable infrastructure. Our Google Workspace collaboration tools — which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Meet and more — are designed with real-time collaboration and machine intelligence to help people work smarter. Because more and more of today’s great digital experiences are being built in the cloud, our Google Cloud products help businesses of all sizes take advantage of the latest technology advances to operate more efficiently.
Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from fees received for Google Cloud Platform services and Google Workspace collaboration tools.
Other Bets
Throughout Alphabet, we are also using technology to try and solve big problems across many industries. Alphabet’s investment in our portfolio of Other Bets include emerging businesses at various stages of development, ranging from those in the research and development phase to those that are in the beginning stages of commercialization, and our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the medium to long term. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. Revenues are primarily generated from internet and TV services, as well as licensing and R&D services.
Other Bets operate as independent companies and some of them have their own boards with independent members and outside investors. We are investing in our portfolio of Other Bets and being very deliberate about the focus, scale, and pace of investments.
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from:
•General purpose search engines and information services, such as Baidu, Microsoft's Bing, Naver, Seznam, Verizon's Yahoo, and Yandex.
•Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Amazon and eBay (e-commerce), Booking's Kayak (travel queries), Microsoft's LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google.
•Social networks, such as Facebook, Snapchat, and Twitter. Some users increasingly rely on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines.
•Other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline.
•Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Amazon, AppNexus, Criteo, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers that use Google Ads, our primary auction-based advertising platform.
•Providers of digital video services, such as Amazon, Apple, AT&T, Disney, Facebook, Hulu, Netflix and TikTok.
In businesses that are further afield from our advertising business, we compete with companies that have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users. We face competition from:
•Other digital content and application platform providers, such as Amazon and Apple.

Alphabet Inc.

•Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer hardware products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms.
•Providers of enterprise cloud services, including Alibaba, Amazon, and Microsoft.
•Digital assistant providers, such as Amazon and Apple.
Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to deliver and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace across our businesses. Specifically, for advertising, competing successfully depends on attracting and retaining:
•Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely on the basis of the relevance of our advertising, as well as the general usefulness, security and availability of our products and services.
•Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels.
•Content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.
Ongoing Commitment to Sustainability
At Google, we build technology that helps people do more for the planet. We strive to build sustainability into everything we do, including designing and operating efficient data centers, advancing carbon-free energy, creating sustainable workplaces, building better devices and services, empowering users with technology, and enabling a responsible supply chain.
Google has been carbon neutral since 2007, and in 2019, for the third consecutive year, we matched 100% of our electricity consumption with renewable energy purchases. We are the largest annual corporate purchaser of renewable energy in the world, based on renewable electricity purchased in megawatt-hour (MWh). In 2020, we neutralized our entire legacy carbon footprint since our founding (covering all our operational emissions before we became carbon neutral in 2007), making Google the first major company to achieve carbon neutrality for its entire operating history. In our third decade of climate action, we’ve set our most ambitious goal yet: to run our business on carbon-free energy everywhere, at all times, by 2030.
We're also investing in technologies to help our partners and people all over the world make sustainable choices. For example, we intend to enable 5 GW of new carbon-free energy across our key manufacturing regions by 2030 through investment. We anticipate this will spur more than $5 billion in clean energy investments, avoid the amount of emissions equal to taking more than 1 million cars off the road each year, and create more than 8,000 clean energy jobs. With the Environmental Insights Explorer, we're also working to help more than 500 cities and local governments globally reduce a total of 1 gigaton of carbon emissions annually by 2030 — that’s the equivalent of the annual carbon emissions of a country the size of Japan.
Google’s products are already helping people make more sustainable choices in their daily lives, whether it’s using Google Maps to find bike-shares and electric vehicle charging stations, or in many European countries, using Google Flights to sort the least carbon-intensive option flights. There are more tools and information we can provide, and our goal is to find new ways that our products can help 1 billion people make more sustainable choices by 2022.
Climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time. In 2017, we developed a climate resilience strategy, which included conducting a climate scenario analysis. We've earned a spot on the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change A List for seven consecutive years. We believe our CDP climate change response reflects the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
In 2020, we issued $5.75 billion in sustainability bonds, the largest sustainability or green bond issuance by any company in history. The net proceeds from the issuance are used to fund environmentally and socially responsible projects in the following eight areas: energy efficiency, clean energy, green buildings, clean transportation, circular economy and design, affordable housing, commitment to racial equity, and support for small businesses and COVID-19 crisis response.
More information on our approach to sustainability can be found in our annual sustainability reports, including Google’s environmental report. The content of our sustainability reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC.

Alphabet Inc.

Culture and Workforce
We’re a company of curious, talented and passionate people. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex challenges in technology and society. 
Our people are critical for our continued success. We work hard to provide an environment where Googlers can have fulfilling careers, and be happy, healthy and productive. We offer industry-leading benefits and programs to take care of the diverse needs of our employees and their families, including access to excellent healthcare choices, opportunities for career growth and development, and resources to support their financial health. Our competitive compensation programs help us to attract and retain top candidates, and we will continue to invest in recruiting talented people to technical and non-technical roles and rewarding them well.
Alphabet is committed to making diversity, equity, and inclusion part of everything we do and we’re committed to growing a workforce that’s representative of the users we serve. More information on Google’s approach to diversity can be found in our annual diversity reports, available publicly at diversity.google. The content of our diversity reports is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC.
We have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries and we are committed to supporting protected labor rights, maintaining an open culture and listening to all Googlers. Supporting healthy and open dialogue is central to how we work, and we communicate information about the company through multiple internal channels to our employees. As of December 31, 2020, Alphabet had 135,301 employees. 
When necessary, we contract with businesses around the world to provide specialized services where we don’t have appropriate in-house expertise or resources, often in fields that require specialized training like cafe operations, customer support, content moderation and physical security. We also contract with temporary staffing agencies when we need to cover short-term leaves, when we have spikes in business needs, or when we need to quickly incubate special projects. We choose our partners and staffing agencies carefully, and review their compliance with Google’s Supplier Code of Conduct. We continually make improvements to promote a respectful and positive working environment for everyone — employees, vendors and temporary staff alike.
Government Regulation
We are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. Like other companies in the technology industry, we face heightened scrutiny from both U.S. and foreign governments with respect to our compliance with laws and regulations. Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and could, individually or in the aggregate, increase our cost of doing business, impact our competitive position relative to our peers, and/or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. For additional information about government regulation applicable to our business, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A, Trends in Our Business in Part II, Item 7, and Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Intellectual Property
We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties.
Seasonality
Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality (including developments and volatility arising from COVID-19).
Available Information
Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments to these reports, are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC.
We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or 

Alphabet Inc.

announcements regarding our financial performance and other items that may be material or of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. We also share Google news and product updates on Google's Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, that may be material or of interest to our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
Risks Specific to our Company
We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending by advertisers, a loss of partners, or new and existing technologies that block ads online and/or affect our ability to customize ads could harm our business. 
We generated over 80% of total revenues from the display of ads online in 2020. Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content providers can terminate their contracts with us at any time. These partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. Changes to our advertising policies and data privacy practices, as well as changes to other companies’ advertising and/or data privacy practices may affect the advertising that we are able to provide, which could harm our business. In addition, technologies have been developed that make customized ads more difficult or that block the display of ads altogether and some providers of online services have integrated technologies that could potentially impair the availability and functionality of third-party digital advertising. Failing to provide superior value or deliver advertisements effectively and competitively could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including COVID-19 and its effects on the global economy (as discussed in greater detail in our COVID-19 risk factor under ‘General Risks’ below), have impacted the demand for advertising and resulted in fluctuations in the amounts our advertisers spend on advertising, and could have an adverse impact on such demand and spend, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.
We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, which could harm our business and operating results.
Our business environment is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our businesses face changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of rival products and services. To compete successfully, we must accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies in a timely manner. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services. We must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our technology and new and existing products and services.
We have many competitors in different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Some competitors have longer operating histories and well established relationships in various sectors. They can use their experience and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in research and development and in talent, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete aggressively for users, advertisers, customers, and content providers. Further, discrepancies in enforcement of existing laws may enable our lesser known competitors to aggressively interpret those laws without commensurate scrutiny, thereby affording them competitive advantages. Our competitors may also be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the need for products and services before us.
Our operating results may also suffer if our products and services are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. As technologies continue to develop, our competitors may be able to offer experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This 

Alphabet Inc.

may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers, our operating results could be harmed.
Our ongoing investment in new businesses, products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our current operations and harm our financial condition and operating results. 
We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The investments that we are making across Google Services, Google Cloud and Other Bets reflect our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. Our investments in Google Services, Google Cloud and Other Bets span a wide range of industries beyond online advertising. Such investments ultimately may not be commercially viable or may not result in an adequate return of capital and, in pursuing new strategies, we may incur unanticipated liabilities. These endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion of management resources and, with respect to Other Bets, the use of alternative investment, governance, or compensation structures that may fail to adequately align incentives across the company or otherwise accomplish their objectives.
Within Google Services, we continue to invest heavily in hardware, including our smartphones and home devices, which is a highly competitive market with frequent introduction of new products and services, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price and performance characteristics, and price and feature sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. There can be no assurance we will be able to provide hardware that competes effectively.
Within Google Cloud, we devote significant resources to develop and deploy our enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace. We are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services and hire talent, particularly to support and scale our salesforce. At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services. Pricing and delivery models are competitive and evolving, and we may not attain sufficient scale and profitability to achieve our business objectives.
Within Other Bets, we are investing significantly in the areas of health, life sciences, and transportation, among others. These investment areas face intense competition from large experienced and well-funded competitors and our offerings may not be able to compete effectively or to operate at sufficient levels of profitability.
In addition, new and evolving products and services, including those that use artificial intelligence and machine learning, raise ethical, technological, legal, regulatory, and other challenges, which may negatively affect our brands and demand for our products and services. Because all of these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future. 
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including increasing competition and the continued expansion of our business into a variety of new fields. Changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix and an increasing competition for advertising may also affect our advertising revenue growth rate. We may also experience a decline in our revenue growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels, if there is a decrease in the rate of adoption of our products, services, and technologies, or due to deceleration or decline in demand for devices used to access our services, among other factors. In addition, COVID-19 and its effects on the global economy has impacted and may continue to adversely impact our revenue growth rate (as discussed in greater detail in our COVID-19 risk factor under ‘General Risks’ below).
In addition to a decline in our revenue growth rate, we may also experience downward pressure on our operating margin resulting from a variety of factors, such as the continued expansion of our business into new fields, including products and services such as hardware, Google Cloud, and subscription products, as well as significant investments in Other Bets, all of which may have margins lower than those we generate from advertising. We may also experience downward pressure on our operating margins from increasing regulations, increasing competition and increased costs for many aspects of our business, including within advertising where changes such as device mix, property mix, and partner agreements can affect margin. The margin we earn on revenues generated from our Google Network Members could also decrease in the future if we pay a larger percentage of advertising fees to them. We may also pay increased TAC to our distribution partners as well as increased content acquisition 

Alphabet Inc.

costs to content providers. We may also face an increase in infrastructure costs, supporting businesses such as Search, Google Cloud, and YouTube. Many of our expenses are less variable in nature and may not correlate to changes in revenues. 
Due to these factors and the evolving nature of our business, our historical revenue growth rate and historical operating margin may not be indicative of our future performance.
Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brands as well as affect our ability to compete. 
Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services, and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable.
We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of such trade secrets and other sensitive information could be compromised, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word “Google” could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word “search.” Some courts have ruled that "Google" is a protectable trademark, but it is possible that other courts, particularly those outside of the United States, may reach a different determination. If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word “Google” to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand.
Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results.
Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. 
Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google Services, Google Cloud and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our brands may be negatively affected by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy and security issues and developments, and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to appropriately respond to the sharing of misinformation or objectionable content on our services and/or products or objectionable practices by advertisers, or to otherwise adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence in our brands.
Furthermore, failure to maintain and enhance equity in our brands may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our success will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a valuable role in a range of settings.
We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that, if not properly managed, could harm our financial condition, operating results, and prospects. 
We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management, which could affect our ability to supply both our products and our internet-based services.
We rely on other companies to manufacture many of our finished products, to design certain of our components and parts, and to participate in the distribution of our products and services. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage these companies with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them.
We have experienced and/or may experience supply shortages and price increases driven by raw material, component or part availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, tariffs, trade disputes 

Alphabet Inc.

and barriers, natural disasters or pandemics (including COVID-19), the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. We have experienced and/or may in the future, experience shortages or other supply chain disruptions that could negatively affect our operations. In addition, some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and products are available from only one or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms in the event of a supply chain disruption. In addition, a significant supply interruption could delay critical data center upgrades or expansions and delay product availability.
We may enter into long term contracts for materials and products that commit us to significant terms and conditions. We may be liable for materials and products that are not consumed due to market acceptance, technological change, obsolescences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because certain of our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and negatively affect our financial results. Furthermore, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect our supply.
Our products and services may have quality issues resulting from design, manufacturing, or operations. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products and services does not meet expectations or our products or services are defective, it could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
We require our suppliers and business partners to comply with laws and, where applicable, our company policies, such as the Google Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. Violations of law or unethical business practices could result in supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, harm to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. Their failure to procure necessary license rights to intellectual property, could affect our ability to sell our products or services and expose us to litigation or financial claims.
Interruption, interference with, or failure of our complex information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, complications with the design or implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning system could harm our business and operations.
The availability of our products and services and fulfillment of our customer contracts depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage, interference, or interruption from modifications or upgrades, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or pandemics (including COVID-19), the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, ransomware attacks, computer denial of service attacks, phishing schemes, or other attempts to harm or access our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and, in some cases, to potential disruptions resulting from problems experienced by facility operators. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities.
The occurrence of a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19), closure of a facility, or other unanticipated problems at, or impacting, our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and may contain errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in or failure of our services or systems.
In addition, we rely extensively on information systems and technology to manage our business and summarize operating results. We are in the process of a multi-year implementation of a new ERP system, which will replace much of our existing core financial systems. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain our financial records, enhance the flow of financial information, improve data management, and provide timely information to our management team. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP system without experiencing delays, increased costs, and other difficulties. Failure to successfully design and implement the new ERP system as planned could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the ERP system as planned or the ERP system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be negatively affected.

Alphabet Inc.

Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, our financial condition, and operating results.
Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 53% of our consolidated revenues in 2020. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following: 
•Restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.
•Import and export requirements, tariffs and other market access barriers that may prevent or impede us from offering products or providing services to a particular market, or that could limit our ability to source assemblies and finished products from a particular market, and may increase our operating costs.
•Longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud.
•Evolving foreign events, including the effect of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union, may adversely affect our revenues and could subject us to new regulatory costs and challenges (including the transfer of personal data between the EU and the United Kingdom and new customer requirements), in addition to other adverse effects that we are unable to effectively anticipate.
•Anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting certain payments to government officials, violations of which could result in civil and criminal penalties.
•Uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent.
•Different employee/employer relationships, existence of works councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions.
Because we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings, particularly in light of market volatilities due to COVID-19. Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could harm our financial condition and operating results.
Risks Related to our Industry
People access the Internet through a variety of platforms and devices that continue to evolve with the advancement of technology and user preferences. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our products and services developed for these interfaces, our business could be harmed. 
People access the Internet through a growing variety of devices such as desktop computers, mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-activated speakers, wearables, automobiles, and television-streaming devices. Our products and services may be less popular on some interfaces. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not be available or may only be available with limited functionality for our users or our advertisers on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via voice-activated speakers, apps, social media or other platforms, which could harm our business. It is hard to predict the challenges we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to creating and supporting products and services across multiple platforms and devices. Failing to attract and retain a substantial number of new device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users, or failing to develop products and technologies that work well on new devices and platforms, could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results and ability to capture future business opportunities.
Data privacy and security concerns relating to our technology and our practices could damage our reputation, cause us to incur significant liability, and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. Software bugs or defects, security breaches, and attacks on our systems could result in the improper disclosure and use of user data and interference with our users and customers’ ability to use our products and services, harming our business operations and reputation.

Alphabet Inc.

Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other data-privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our policies and practices may change over time as expectations regarding privacy and data change.
Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary and other sensitive information, and bugs, theft, misuse, defects, vulnerabilities in our products and services, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, improper use and disclosure of such information, litigation, and other potential liability. Systems and control failures, security breaches, failure to comply with our privacy policies, and/or inadvertent disclosure of user data could result in government and legal exposure, seriously harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business, and impair our ability to attract and retain users or customers. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to maintain security protections that shield against bugs, theft, misuse, or security vulnerabilities or breaches.
We experience cyber attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems on a regular basis. We may experience future security issues, whether due to employee error or malfeasance or system errors or vulnerabilities in our or other parties’ systems, which could result in significant legal and financial exposure. Government inquiries and enforcement actions, litigation, and adverse press coverage could harm our business. We may be unable to anticipate or detect attacks or vulnerabilities or implement adequate preventative measures. Attacks and security issues could also compromise trade secrets and other sensitive information, harming our business.
While we have dedicated significant resources to privacy and security incident response capabilities, including dedicated worldwide incident response teams, our response process, particularly during times of a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19), may not be adequate, may fail to accurately assess the severity of an incident, may not respond quickly enough, or may fail to sufficiently remediate an incident. As a result, we may suffer significant legal, reputational, or financial exposure, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.
Our ongoing investments in safety, security, and content review will likely continue to identify abuse of our platforms and misuse of user data. 
In addition to our efforts to mitigate cyber attacks, we are making significant investments in safety, security, and content review efforts to combat misuse of our services and unauthorized access to user data by third parties, including investigations and review of platform applications that could access the information of users of our services. As a result of these efforts, we could discover incidents of unnecessary access to or misuse of user data or other undesirable activity by third parties. We may not discover all such incidents or activity, whether as a result of our data limitations, including our lack of visibility over our encrypted services, the scale of activity on our platform, or other factors, including factors outside of our control such as a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19), and we may be notified of such incidents or activity via third parties. Such incidents and activities may include the use of user data or our systems in a manner inconsistent with our terms, contracts or policies, the existence of false or undesirable user accounts, election interference, improper ad purchases, activities that threaten people’s safety on- or offline, or instances of spamming, scraping, or spreading disinformation. We may also be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our policies or otherwise remediate any such incidents. Any of the foregoing developments may negatively affect user trust and engagement, harm our reputation and brands, require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business, and adversely affect our business and financial results. Any such developments may also subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result in monetary penalties and damages, divert management’s time and attention, and lead to enhanced regulatory oversight.
Problematic content on our platforms, including low-quality user-generated content, web spam, content farms, and other violations of our guidelines could affect the quality of our services, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. 
We, like others in the industry, face violations of our content guidelines across our platforms, including sophisticated attempts by bad actors to manipulate our hosting and advertising systems to fraudulently generate revenues, or to otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine user interest or intent. While we invest significantly in efforts to promote high-quality and relevant results and to detect and prevent low-quality content and invalid traffic, we may be unable to adequately detect and prevent such abuses or promote high-quality content, particularly during times of a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19).
Many websites violate or attempt to violate our guidelines, including by seeking to inappropriately rank higher in search results than our search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. Such efforts 

Alphabet Inc.

(known as “web spam”) may affect the quality of content on our platforms and lead them to display false, misleading or undesirable content.
Although English-language web spam in our search results has been reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek inappropriate ways to improve their rankings. We continuously combat web spam in our search results, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We also continue to invest in and deploy proprietary technology to detect and prevent web spam from abusing our platforms.
We also face other challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes focused on detecting and preventing abuse from low-quality websites.
We also face other challenges on our platforms, including violations of our content guidelines involving incidents such as attempted election interference, activities that threaten the safety and/or well-being of our users on- or offline, and the spreading of disinformation, among other challenges.
If we fail to either detect and prevent an increase in problematic content or effectively promote high-quality content, it could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information or reduce use of our platforms, harming our financial condition or operating results. It may also subject us to litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result in monetary penalties and damages, divert management’s time and attention, and lead to enhanced regulatory oversight.
Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers.
Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings, or by providing our competitors preferential access. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms of discrimination by internet access providers; however, substantial uncertainty exists in the United States and elsewhere regarding such protections. For example, in 2018 the United States Federal Communications Commission repealed net neutrality rules, which could permit internet access providers to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. COVID-19 has also resulted in quarantines, shelter in place orders, and work from home directives, all of which have increased demands for internet access and may create access challenges. These could result in a loss of existing users, customers and advertisers, goodwill, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users, customers and advertisers, thereby harming our business.
Risks Related to Laws and Regulations
We face increased regulatory scrutiny as well as changes in regulatory conditions, laws and policies governing a wide range of topics that may negatively affect our business. 
We and other companies in the technology industry face increased regulatory scrutiny, enforcement action, and other proceedings. For instance, the U.S. Department of Justice, joined by a number of state Attorneys General, filed an antitrust complaint against Google on October 20, 2020, alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws relating to Search and Search advertising. Separately, on December 16, 2020, a number of state Attorneys General filed an antitrust complaint against Google in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws as well as state deceptive trade laws relating to its advertising technology. Various other regulatory agencies in the United States and around the world, including competition enforcers, consumer protection agencies, data protection authorities, grand juries, inter-agency consultative groups, and a range of other governmental bodies have and continue to review our products and services and their compliance with laws and regulations around the world. We continue to cooperate with these investigations. Various laws, regulations, investigations, enforcement lawsuits, and regulatory actions have in the past and may in the future result in substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing auditing and monitoring 

Alphabet Inc.

obligations, changes to our products and services, alterations to our business models and operations, and collateral litigation, all of which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
Changes in international and local social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics may increase our cost of doing business, limit our ability to pursue certain business models, offer products or services in certain jurisdictions, or cause us to change our business practices. We have in the past had to alter or withdraw certain products and services as a result of laws or regulations that made them unfeasible, and new laws or regulations, such as the News Media Bargaining Code drafted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission currently tabled in parliament, could result in our having to alter or withdraw products and services in the future. These additional costs of doing business, new limitations or changes to our business model or practices could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
A variety of new and existing laws and/or interpretations could harm our business. 
We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations or applications of existing laws and regulations in a manner inconsistent with our practices) may make our products and services less useful, limit our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products and services, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. These laws and regulations are evolving and involve matters central to our business, including, among others:
•New competition laws and related regulations around the world, that can limit certain business practices, and in some cases, create the risk of significant penalties.
•Privacy laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 that came into effect in January of 2020 and the California Privacy Rights Act which will go into effect in 2023, both of which give new data privacy rights to California residents, and SB-327 in California, which regulates the security of data in connection with internet connected devices.
•Data protection laws passed by many states within the U.S. and by certain countries regarding notification to data subjects and/or regulators when there is a security breach of personal data.
•New laws further restricting the collection, processing and/or sharing of advertising-related data.
•Copyright or similar laws around the world, including the EU Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market (EUCD) of April 17, 2019, which EU Member States must implement by June 7, 2021; and the News Media Bargaining Code drafted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. These and similar laws that have been adopted or proposed introduce new constraining licensing regimes that could affect our ability to operate. The EUCD and similar laws could increase the liability of some content-sharing services with respect to content uploaded by their users. Some of these laws, as well as follow-on administrative or judicial actions, have also created or may create a new property right in news publications that limits the ability of some online services to interact with or present such content. They may also impose compensation negotiations with news agencies and publishers for the use of such content, which may result in payment obligations that significantly exceed the value that such content provides to Google and its users.
•Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country.
•Various U.S. and international laws that govern the distribution of certain materials to children and regulate the ability of online services to collect information from minors.
•Various laws with regard to content removal and disclosure obligations, such as the Network Enforcement Act in Germany, which may affect our businesses and operations and may subject us to significant fines if such laws are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices or when we may not proactively discover such content due to the scale of third-party content and the limitations of existing technologies. Other countries, including Singapore, Australia, and the United Kingdom, have implemented or are considering similar legislation imposing penalties for failure to remove certain types of content.
•Various legislative, litigation, and regulatory activity regarding our Google Play billing policies and business model, which could result in monetary penalties, damages and/or prohibition.
In addition, the applicability and scope of these laws, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain and could harm our business. For example:

Alphabet Inc.

•We rely on statutory safe harbors, as set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act in the United States and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, against liability for various linking, caching, and hosting activities. Any legislation or court rulings affecting these safe harbors may adversely affect us. There are legislative proposals in both the US and EU that could reduce our safe harbor protection.
•Court decisions such as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) on May 13, 2014 on the ‘right to be forgotten,’ which allows individuals to demand that Google remove search results about them in certain instances, may limit the content we can show to our users and impose significant operational burdens.
The introduction of new businesses, products, services, and technologies, our activities in certain jurisdictions, or other actions we take may subject us to additional laws and regulations. Our investment in a variety of new fields, such as healthcare and payment services, may expand the scope of regulations that apply to our business. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future. Any failure on our part to comply with laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.
We are subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
We are subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Due to our manufacturing and sale of an expanded suite of products, including hardware as well as Google Cloud offerings, we also are subject to a variety of claims including product warranty, product liability, and consumer protection claims related to product defects, among other litigation. We may also be subject to claims involving health and safety, hazardous materials usage, other environmental impacts, or service disruptions or failures.
Any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse effect on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, negative publicity and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. The resolution of one or more such proceedings has resulted in, and may in the future result in, additional substantial fines, penalties, injunctions, and other sanctions that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.
We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. 
Our products and services let users exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities. We also place advertisements displayed on other companies’ websites, and we offer third-party products, services, and/or content. The law relating to the liability of online service providers for others’ activities on their services is still somewhat unsettled around the world. Claims have been brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright and trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, torts, fraud, or other legal theories based on the nature and content of information available on or via our services.
We may be subject to claims by virtue of our involvement in hosting, transmitting, marketing, branding, or providing access to content created by third parties. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner.
Privacy and data protection regulations are complex and rapidly evolving areas. Adverse interpretations of these laws could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Authorities around the world have adopted and are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection and limits on encryption of user data. Adverse legal rulings, legislation, or regulation could result in fines and orders requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to provide services, harming our business operations. Complying with these evolving laws could result in substantial costs and harm the quality of our products and services, negatively affecting our business, and may be particularly challenging during certain times, such as a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19).
Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding transfers of personal data from Europe to the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services that we offer to EU 

Alphabet Inc.

users or customers, or the monitoring of their behavior in the EU. The GDPR creates a range of new compliance obligations.
Ensuring compliance with the GDPR is an ongoing commitment that involves substantial costs, and despite our efforts, governmental authorities or others have asserted and may continue to assert that our business practices fail to comply with its requirements. If our operations are found to violate GDPR requirements, we may incur substantial fines, have to change our business practices, and face reputational harm, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. In particular, serious breaches of the GDPR can result in administrative fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide revenues. Fines of up to 2% of annual worldwide revenues can be levied for other specified violations.
The EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks allow U.S. companies that self-certify to the U.S. Department of Commerce and publicly commit to comply with specified requirements to import personal data from the EU and Switzerland. Recently, the CJEU ruled that the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield is an invalid transfer mechanism, but upheld Standard Contractual Clauses as a valid transfer mechanism, provided they meet certain requirements. The validity of data transfer mechanisms remains subject to legal, regulatory, and political developments in both Europe and the U.S., such as recent recommendations from the European Data Protection Board, the invalidation of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield and potential invalidation of other data transfer mechanisms, which could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to process and transfer personal data outside of the EEA.
These developments create some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or harm the operations of our products and services in ways that harm our business.
We face, and may continue to face intellectual property and other claims that could be costly to defend, result in significant damage awards or other costs (including indemnification awards), and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. 
We, like other internet, technology and media companies, are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent-holding companies may frequently seek to generate income from patents they have obtained by bringing claims against us. As we have grown, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies.
We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Other parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease-and-desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell our products or services in the U.S. or elsewhere if our products or services or those of our customers or suppliers are found to infringe the intellectual property subject to the claims. Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services. They may also cause us to change our business practices and require development of non-infringing products, services, or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business.
Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to defend against certain intellectual property infringement claims and in some cases indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could result in increased costs for defending such claims or significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers arising from intellectual property infringement claims. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims.
Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. To the extent such claims are successful, they may harm our business, including our product and service offerings, financial condition, or operating results.
Risks Related to Ownership of our Stock
We cannot guarantee that any share repurchase program will be fully consummated or will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of our stock prices and could diminish our cash reserves. 

Alphabet Inc.

We engage in share repurchases of our Class C capital stock from time to time in accordance with authorizations from the Board of Directors of Alphabet. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date and does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. Further, our share repurchases could affect our share trading prices, increase their volatility, reduce our cash reserves and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading prices of our stock.
The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. 
Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A common stock has one vote per share, and our Class C capital stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2020, Larry Page and Sergey Brin beneficially owned approximately 85.3% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which represented approximately 51.5% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Through their stock ownership, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C capital stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could continue Larry and Sergey’s current relative voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. This concentrated control limits or severely restricts other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial, which could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock.
Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.
Provisions in Alphabet’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:
•Our certificate of incorporation provides for a tri-class capital stock structure. As a result of this structure, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, or other change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. As noted above, the issuance of the Class C capital stock could have the effect of continuing the influence of Larry and Sergey.
•Our Board of Directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors.
•Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting.
•Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates.
•Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company.
•Our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.
As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the Board of Directors has approved the transaction. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.

Alphabet Inc.

General Risks
The continuing impacts of COVID-19 are highly unpredictable and could be significant, and may have an adverse effect on our business, operations and our future financial performance. 
Since COVID-19 was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization, governments and municipalities around the world have instituted measures in an effort to control the spread of COVID-19, including quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, school closings, travel restrictions, and closure of non-essential businesses. The macroeconomic impacts on our business continue to evolve and be unpredictable and may continue to adversely affect our business, operations and financial performance. As a result of the scale of the ongoing pandemic and the speed at which the global community has been impacted, our revenue growth rate and expense as a percentage of our revenues in future periods may differ significantly from our historical rate, and our future operating results may fall below expectations. 
The future impacts of the ongoing pandemic on our business, operations and future financial performance could include, but are not limited to:
•Significant decline in advertising revenues as advertiser spending slows due to an economic downturn. This decline in advertising revenues could persist through and beyond a recessionary period. In addition, we may experience a significant and prolonged shift in user behavior such as a shift in interests to less commercial topics.
•Significant decline in other revenues due to a decline or shifts in customer demand. For example, if consumer demand for electronics significantly declines, our hardware revenues could be significantly impacted.
•Adverse impacts to our operating income, operating margin, net income, EPS and respective growth rates - particularly if expenses do not decrease across Alphabet at the same pace as revenue declines. Many of our expenses are less variable in nature and/or may not correlate to changes in revenues, including costs associated with our data centers and facilities as well as employee compensation. As such, we may not be able to decrease them significantly in the short-term, or we may choose not to significantly reduce them in an effort to remain focused on long-term outlook and investment opportunities.
•Significant decline in our operating cash flows as a result of decreased advertiser spending and deterioration in the credit quality and liquidity of our customers, which could adversely affect our accounts receivable. Investing cash flows could decrease due to slowing spend on data center and facilities construction projects due to a slowing or stopping of construction or significant restrictions placed on construction.
•The prolonged and broad-based shift to a remote working environment continues to create inherent productivity, connectivity, and oversight challenges and could affect our ability to enhance, develop and support existing products and services, detect and prevent spam and problematic content, hold product sales and marketing events, and generate new sales leads, among others. In addition, the changed environment under which we are operating could have an effect on our internal controls over financial reporting as well as our ability to meet a number of our compliance requirements in a timely or quality manner. Additional and/or extended, governmental lockdowns, restrictions or new regulations could significantly impact the ability of our employees and vendors to work productively. Governmental restrictions have been globally inconsistent and it remains unclear when a return to worksite locations or travel will be permitted or what restrictions will be in place in those environments. As we prepare to return our workforce in more locations back to the office in 2021, we may experience increased costs as we prepare our facilities for a safe return to work environment and experiment with hybrid work models, in addition to potential effects on our ability to compete effectively and maintain our corporate culture.
Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations.
Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. 
As a result, comparing our operating results (including our expenses as a percentage of our revenues) on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed under this Item 1A in addition to the following factors may affect our operating results:
•Our ability to attract user and/or customer adoption of, and generate significant revenues from, new products, services, and technologies in which we have invested considerable time and resources.

Alphabet Inc.

•Our ability to monetize traffic on Google Search & other properties, YouTube and our Google Network Members' properties across various devices.
•The amount and timing of operating costs and expenses and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure.
•Our focus on long-term goals over short-term results.
•The results of our acquisitions, divestitures, and our investments in risky projects, including new businesses, products, services, and technologies.
•Our ability to keep our products and services operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions.
•The seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising spending, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality. Our rapid growth has tended to mask the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results to fluctuate.
•Geopolitical events, including trade disputes.
•Changes in global business or macroeconomic conditions.
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and divestitures are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and operating results. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of such potential strategic transactions, which could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Some of the areas where we face risks include:
•Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic transactions.
•Failure to successfully integrate and further develop the acquired business or technology.
•Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company.
•Integration of the acquired company’s accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions.
•Transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms.
•Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of a transaction.
•In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.
•Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire.
•Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, data privacy and security issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities.
•Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties.
Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.
Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. 

Alphabet Inc.

Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which may harm our financial condition or operating results.
If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. 
Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. For instance, Sundar Pichai is critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries and plays an important role in the development of our technology, maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could seriously harm our business.
We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively. 
Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our ability to compete effectively and our future success depends on our continuing to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Restrictive immigration policy and regulatory changes may also impact our ability to hire, mobilize or retain some of our global talent. 
In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows and evolves, we may need to implement more complex organizational management structures or adapt our corporate culture and work environments to ever-changing circumstances, such as during times of a natural disaster or pandemic (including COVID-19), and these changes could impact our ability to compete effectively or have an adverse impact on our corporate culture.
We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investments and, in some instances, our financial statements incorporate valuation methodologies that are subjective in nature resulting in fluctuations over time. 
The market value of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, performance and financial results of the underlying entities, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates, including changes that may result from the implementation of new benchmark rates, the effect of new or changing regulations, the stock market in general, or other factors. The effect of COVID-19 on our impairment assessment for non-marketable investments requires significant judgment due to the uncertainty around the duration and severity of the impact.
We measure certain of our non-marketable equity and debt investments, certain other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled in the stock of certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. The determination of fair value involves use of appropriate valuation methods and certain unobservable inputs, require management judgment and estimation, and may change over time.
We adjust the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments to fair value for observable transactions of identical or similar investments of the same issuer or for impairments. All gains and losses on non-marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized in other income (expense), which increases the volatility of our other income (expense). The unrealized gains and losses we record on our non-marketable equity securities in any particular period may differ significantly from the realized gains or losses we ultimately experience on such investments. 
As a result of these factors, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents, as well as our marketable and non-marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.
We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. 
Our future income taxes could be negatively affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax 

Alphabet Inc.

assets or liabilities, the application of different provisions of tax laws or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles (including changes in the interpretation of existing laws), as well as certain discrete items.
In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions, including in Europe, on various tax-related assertions, such as transfer-pricing adjustments or permanent-establishment claims. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition and could require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. It may also subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, resulting in the diversion of management’s time and attention. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.
Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws, or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant changes in ways that impair our financial results. Various jurisdictions around the world have enacted or are considering digital services taxes, which could lead to inconsistent and potentially overlapping international tax regimes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) recently released proposals relating to its initiative for modernizing international tax rules, with the goal of having different countries implement a modernized and aligned international tax framework, but there can be no guarantee that this will occur.
In addition, in response to significant market volatility and disruptions to business operations resulting from the global spread of COVID-19, legislatures and taxing authorities in many jurisdictions in which we operate may propose changes to their tax rules. These changes could include modifications that have temporary effect, and more permanent changes. The impact of these potential new rules on us, our long-term tax planning, and our effective tax rate could be material.
The trading price for our Class A common stock and non-voting Class C capital stock may continue to be volatile. 
The trading price of our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. 
In addition to the factors discussed in this report, the trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments; recommendations by securities analysts or changes in their earnings estimates; announcements about our or our competitors' earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the risk of which is enhanced, in our case, because it is our policy not to give guidance on earnings; commentary by industry and market professionals about our products, strategies, and other matters affecting our business and results, regardless of its accuracy; the volume of shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock available for public sale; sales of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock by us or by our stockholders (including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other employees); short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock; the size, timing and share class of any share repurchase program; and the perceived values of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock relative to one another.
In addition, the stock market in general, which can be affected by various factors, including overall economic and political conditions, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies.
These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.
ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
Not applicable.

Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We also own and lease office and building space in the surrounding areas near our headquarters, which we believe is sufficient to accommodate anticipated future growth. In addition, we own and lease office/building space and research and development sites around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We own and operate data centers in the U.S., Europe, South America, and Asia. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.
ITEM 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.

Alphabet Inc.

PART II
ITEM 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
As of October 2, 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since August 19, 2004 and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. Our Class B common stock is neither listed nor traded. Our Class C capital stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since April 3, 2014.
Holders of Record
As of December 31, 2020, there were approximately 4,337 and 1,942 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock, respectively. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of December 31, 2020, there were approximately 64 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock.
Dividend Policy
We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace and form of capital return to stockholders.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class C capital stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2020:

Period | Total Number of Shares Purchased (in thousands) (1) | Average Price Paid per Share (2) | | Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(in thousands) (1) | | Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (in millions)
October 1 - 31 | 1,869 | | $ | 1,540.84 | | | 1,869 | $ | 22,667
November 1 - 30 | 1,640 | | $ | 1,748.65 | | | 1,640 | $ | 19,799
December 1 - 31 | 1,205 | | $ | 1,787.62 | | | 1,205 | $ | 17,645
Total | 4,714 | | | | 4,714 | | 

(1)    The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. Please refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases.
(2)    Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases.

Alphabet Inc.

Stock Performance Graphs
The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class A's cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2020. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS A COMMON STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2015 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2020 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.

Alphabet Inc.

The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class C's cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on capital stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our Class C capital stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2020. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS C CAPITAL STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2015 in stock or in index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2020 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.

Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 6.SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period.

 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2016 | | 2017 | 2018 | | 2019 | 2020
 | (in millions, except per share amounts)
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: 
Revenues | $ | 90,272 | | $ | 110,855 | | $ | 136,819 | $ | 161,857 | $ | 182,527
Income from operations | $ | 23,737 | | $ | 26,178 | | $ | 27,524 | $ | 34,231 | $ | 41,224 
Net income | $ | 19,478 | | $ | 12,662 | | $ | 30,736 | $ | 34,343 | $ | 40,269 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 28.32 | | $ | 18.27 | | $ | 44.22 | $ | 49.59 | $ | 59.15 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 28.32 | | $ | 18.27 | | $ | 44.22 | $ | 49.59 | $ | 59.15 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 27.85 | | $ | 18.00 | | $ | 43.70 | $ | 49.16 | $ | 58.61 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 27.85 | | $ | 18.00 | | $ | 43.70 | $ | 49.16 | $ | 58.61 


 | As of December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | 2018 | | 2019 | 2020
 | (in millions) 
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: 
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | $ | 86,333 | | $ | 101,871 | | $ | 109,140 | $ | 119,675 | $ | 136,694
Total assets | $ | 167,497 | | $ | 197,295 | | $ | 232,792 | $ | 275,909 | $ | 319,616
Total long-term liabilities | $ | 11,705 | | $ | 20,610 | | $ | 20,544 | $ | 29,246 | $ | 40,238 
Total stockholders’ equity | $ | 139,036 | | $ | 152,502 | | $ | 177,628 | $ | 201,442 | $ | 222,544


Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
We have omitted discussion of 2018 results where it would be redundant to the discussion previously included in Part II, Item 7 of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Trends in Our Business
The following long-term trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to affect our future results:
•Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves.
The continuing shift from an offline to online world has contributed to the growth of our business since inception, contributing to revenue growth, and we expect that this online shift will continue to benefit our business.
•Users are increasingly using diverse devices and modalities to access our products and services, and our advertising revenues are increasingly coming from new formats.
Our users are accessing the Internet via diverse devices and modalities, such as smartphones, wearables and smart home devices, and want to feel connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. We seek to expand our products and services to stay in front of these trends in order to maintain and grow our business.
We generate our advertising revenues increasingly from different channels, including mobile, and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these channels and newer products have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Additionally, as the market for a particular device type or modality matures, our revenues may be affected. For example, growth in the global smartphone market has slowed due to various factors, including increased market saturation in developed countries, which can affect our mobile advertising revenue growth rates. 
We expect TAC paid to our distribution partners and Google Network Members to increase as our revenues grow and to be affected by changes in device mix; geographic mix; partner mix; partner agreement terms; the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points; product mix; the relative revenue growth rates of advertising revenues from different channels; and revenue share terms. 
We expect these trends to continue to affect our revenue growth rates and put pressure on our overall margins.
•As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings which may affect our monetization.
As interactions between users and advertisers change and as online user behavior evolves, we continue to expand and evolve our product offerings to serve their changing needs. Over time, we expect our monetization trends to fluctuate. For example, we have seen an increase in YouTube ads and Google Play ads, which monetize at a lower rate than our traditional search ads.
•As users in developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue to increase and movements in foreign exchange rates affect such revenues.
The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, such as India, where we continue to invest heavily and develop localized versions of our products and relevant advertising programs useful to our users in these markets. This has led to a trend of increased revenues from international markets over time, as regions with emerging markets, such as APAC, have demonstrated higher revenue growth rates. We expect that our results will continue to be affected by our performance in these markets, particularly as low-cost mobile devices become more available. This trend could impact our margins as developing markets initially monetize at a lower rate than more mature markets.
Our international revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a foreign exchange risk management program designed to reduce our exposure to these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect on our revenues and earnings.

Alphabet Inc.

•The portion of our revenues that we derive from non-advertising revenues is increasing and may affect margins.
Non-advertising revenues have grown over time. We expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our offerings to our users through products and services like Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware products, and YouTube subscriptions. Across these initiatives, we currently derive non-advertising revenues primarily from sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud services and subscription and other services. The margins on these revenues vary significantly and may be lower than the margins on our advertising revenues. A number of our Other Bets initiatives are in their initial development stages, and as such, the sources of revenues from these businesses could change over time and the revenues could be volatile.
•As we continue to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in operating and capital expenditures.
We continue to make significant R&D investments in areas of strategic focus such as advertising, cloud, machine learning, and search, as well as in new products and services. In addition, we expect to continue to invest in land and buildings for data centers and offices, and information technology assets, which includes servers and network equipment, to support the long-term growth of our business.
In addition, acquisitions and strategic investments are an important part of our strategy and use of capital, contributing to the breadth and depth of our offerings, expanding our expertise in engineering and other functional areas, and building strong partnerships around strategic initiatives. For example, in 2020 we announced our Google for India Digitization Fund to invest approximately $10 billion into India over the next 5-7 years through a mix of equity investments, partnerships, and operational, infrastructure and ecosystem investments.
•We face continuing changes in regulatory conditions, laws and public policies, which could impact our business practices and financial results.
Changes in social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics and related legal matters have resulted in fines and caused us to change our business practices. As these global trends continue, for example the recent antitrust complaints filed by the U.S. Department of Justice and a number of state Attorneys General as well as the News Media Bargaining Code drafted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, our cost of doing business may increase and our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products or services may be limited.
•Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them.
Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue hiring talented employees around the globe and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees.
The Impact of COVID-19 on our Results and Operations
In late 2019, an outbreak of COVID-19 emerged and by March 11, 2020 was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization. Across the United States and the world, governments and municipalities instituted measures in an effort to control the spread of COVID-19, including quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, school closings, travel restrictions and the closure of non-essential businesses. The macroeconomic impacts of COVID-19 are significant and continue to evolve, as exhibited by, among other things, a rise in unemployment, changes in consumer behavior, and market volatility. 
We began to observe the impact of COVID-19 and the related reductions in global economic activity on our financial results in March 2020 when, despite an increase in users' search activity, our advertising revenues declined compared to the prior year due to a shift of user search activity to less commercial topics and reduced spending by our advertisers. During the course of the quarter ended June 30, 2020, we observed a gradual return in user search activity to more commercial topics, followed by increased spending by our advertisers that continued throughout the second half of 2020.
We continue to assess the realized and potential credit deterioration of our customers due to changes in the macroeconomic environment, which has been reflected in our allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable. Additionally, over the course of the year we experienced variability in our margins as many of our expenses are less variable in nature and/or may not correlate to changes in revenues, including costs associated with our data centers and facilities as well as employee compensation. Also, market volatility has contributed to fluctuations in the valuation of our equity investments.

Alphabet Inc.

While we continued to make investments in land and buildings for data centers, offices and information technology, in 2020 we slowed the pace of our investments, primarily as it relates to office facilities, as a result of COVID-19.
The ongoing impact of COVID-19 on our business continues to evolve and be unpredictable. For example, to the extent the pandemic disrupts economic activity globally we, like other businesses, are not immune to continued adverse impacts to our business, operations and financial results from volatility in advertising spending, changes in user behavior and preferences, credit deterioration and liquidity of our customers, depressed economic activity, or volatility in capital markets. The ongoing impact will depend on a number of factors, including the duration and severity of the pandemic; the uneven impact to certain industries; advances in testing, treatment and prevention including vaccines; and the macroeconomic impact of government measures to contain the spread of the virus and related government stimulus measures. 
To address the potential impact to our business, over the near-term, we continue to evaluate the pace of our investment plans, including, but not limited to, our hiring, investments in data centers, servers, network equipment, real estate and facilities, marketing and travel spending, as well as taking certain measures to support our customers, our overall workforce, and communities we operate in. As we look to return our workforce in more locations back to the office in 2021, we may experience increased costs as we prepare our facilities for a safe return to work environment and experiment with hybrid work models. At the same time, we believe the current environment is accelerating digital transformation and we remain focused on innovating and investing in the services we offer to consumers and businesses. For example, as it relates to Google Cloud, we continue to invest aggressively around the globe in our go-to-market capabilities, product development and technical infrastructure to support long term growth. The ongoing impact of COVID-19 and the extent of these measures we have taken and the additional measures that we may implement could have a material impact on our financial results. Our past results may not be indicative of our future performance, and historical trends in our financial results may differ materially.
Executive Overview
The following table summarizes our consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020 (in millions, except for per share information and percentages).

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 
Revenues | $161,857 | | | $182,527 | | 
Increase in revenues year over year | 18 | % | | 13 | % | 
Increase in constant currency revenues year over year | 20 | % | | 14 | % | 
Operating income(1) | $ | 34,231 | | | $ | 41,224
Operating margin(1) | 21 | % | | 23 | % | 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 5,394 | | | $ | 6,858 
Net Income(1) | $ | 34,343 | | | $ | 40,269
Diluted EPS(1) | $ | 49.16 | | | $ | 58.61 

(1)    Results for 2019 include the effect of the $1.7 billion EC fine. See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
•Total revenues were $182.5 billion, an increase of 13% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in Google Services segment revenues of $16.8 billion or 11% and an increase in Google Cloud segment revenues of $4.1 billion or 46%. Revenues from the United States, EMEA, APAC, and Other Americas were $85.0 billion, $55.4 billion, $32.6 billion, and $9.4 billion, respectively.
•Total cost of revenues was $84.7 billion, an increase of 18% year over year. TAC was $32.8 billion, an increase of 9% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in revenues subject to TAC. Other cost of revenues were $51.9 billion, an increase of 24% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in data centers and other operations costs and content acquisition costs.

Alphabet Inc.

•Operating expenses were $56.6 billion, an increase of 5% year over year primarily driven by headcount growth and partially offset by declines in advertising and promotional expenses and travel and entertainment expenses.
Other information:
•Operating cash flow was $65.1 billion.
•Capital expenditures, which primarily included investments in technical infrastructure, were $22.3 billion.
•Number of employees was 135,301 as of December 31, 2020. The majority of new hires during the year were engineers and product managers.
Our Segments
Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2020, we report our segment results as Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets: 
•Google Services includes products and services such as ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Google Services generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products such as YouTube Premium and YouTube TV.
•Google Cloud includes Google’s infrastructure and data analytics platforms, collaboration tools, and other services for enterprise customers. Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from fees received for Google Cloud Platform ("GCP") services and Google Workspace (formerly known as G Suite) collaboration tools.
•Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sale of internet services as well as licensing and R&D services.
Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such as finance and legal, including fines and settlements, as well as costs associated with certain shared research and development activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related to revenue are included in corporate costs.
Financial Results
Revenues
The following table presents our revenues by type (in millions).

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Google Search & other | $ | 98,115 | | | $ | 104,062
YouTube ads | 15,149 | | | 19,772 | 
Google Network Members' properties | 21,547 | | | 23,090 | 
Google advertising | 134,811 | | | 146,924 | 
Google other | 17,014 | | | 21,711 | 
Google Services total | 151,825 | | | 168,635 | 
Google Cloud | 8,918 | | | 13,059 | 
Other Bets | 659 | | | 657 | 
Hedging gains (losses) | 455 | | | 176 | 
Total revenues | $ | 161,857 | | | $ | 182,527

Google Services
Google advertising revenues
Our advertising revenue growth, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google Search & other properties and the change in impressions and cost-per-impression on Google Network Members' properties and the correlation between these items, have been affected and may continue to be affected by various factors, including:
•advertiser competition for keywords;
•changes in advertising quality, formats, delivery or policy;

Alphabet Inc.

•changes in device mix;
•changes in foreign currency exchange rates;
•fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs;
•general economic conditions including the impact of COVID-19;
•seasonality; and
•traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals and channels.
Our advertising revenue growth rate has been affected over time as a result of a number of factors, including challenges in maintaining our growth rate as revenues increase to higher levels; changes in our product mix; changes in advertising quality or formats and delivery; the evolution of the online advertising market; increasing competition; our investments in new business strategies; query growth rates; and shifts in the geographic mix of our revenues. We also expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to be affected by evolving user preferences, the acceptance by users of our products and services as they are delivered on diverse devices and modalities, our ability to create a seamless experience for both users and advertisers, and movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
Google advertising revenues consist primarily of the following:
•Google Search & other consists of revenues generated on Google search properties (including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.) and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play;
•YouTube ads consists of revenues generated on YouTube properties; and
•Google Network Members' properties consist of revenues generated on Google Network Members' properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.
Google Search & other
Google Search & other revenues increased $5,947 million from 2019 to 2020. The overall growth was primarily driven by interrelated factors including increases in search queries resulting from ongoing growth in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices, growth in advertiser spending primarily in the second half of the year, and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery. This increase was partially offset by a decline in advertiser spending primarily in the first half of the year driven by the impact of COVID-19.
YouTube ads
YouTube ads revenues increased $4,623 million from 2019 to 2020. Growth was primarily driven by our direct response advertising products, which benefited from improvements to ad formats and delivery and increased advertiser spending. Brand advertising products also contributed to growth despite revenues being adversely impacted by a decline in advertiser spending primarily in the first half of the year driven by the impact of COVID-19.
Google Network Members' properties
Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $1,543 million from 2019 to 2020. The growth was primarily driven by strength in AdMob and Google Ad Manager. 
Use of Monetization Metrics
Paid clicks for our Google Search & other properties represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users on Google search properties and other owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play. Historically, we included certain viewed YouTube engagement ads and the related revenues in our paid clicks and cost-per-click monetization metrics. Over time, advertising on YouTube has expanded to multiple advertising formats and the type of viewed engagement ads historically included in paid clicks and cost-per-click metrics have increasingly covered a smaller portion of YouTube advertising revenues. As a result, we removed these ads and the related revenues from the paid clicks and cost-per-click metrics for the current and historical periods presented. The revised metrics provide a better understanding of monetization trends on the properties included within Google Search & other, as they now more closely correlate with the related changes in revenues.
Impressions for our Google Network Members' properties include impressions displayed to users served on Google Network Members' properties participating primarily in AdMob, AdSense and Google Ad Manager.
Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.

Alphabet Inc.

Cost-per-impression is defined as impression-based and click-based revenues divided by our total number of impressions and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each impression displayed to users.
As our business evolves, we periodically review, refine and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks on our Google Search & other properties and the number of impressions on Google Network Members’ properties and for identifying the revenues generated by click activity on our Google Search & other properties and the revenues generated by impression activity on Google Network Members’ properties. 
Paid clicks and cost-per-click
The following table presents changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Paid clicks change | 23 | % | | 19 | %
Cost-per-click change | (6) | % | | (10) | %

Paid clicks increased from 2019 to 2020 primarily due to an increase in clicks due to interrelated factors, resulting from ongoing growth in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices; continued growth in advertiser activity; and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery. Growth was also driven by an increase in clicks relating to ads on Google Play. The positive effect on our revenues from an increase in paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The decrease in cost-per-click was primarily driven by reduced advertiser spending in response to COVID-19 primarily during the first half of the year. The decrease in cost-per-click was also affected by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product changes, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Paid clicks increased from 2018 to 2019 primarily due to an increase in clicks due to interrelated factors, including an increase in search queries resulting from ongoing growth in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices; continued growth in advertiser activity; and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery. Growth was also driven by an increase in clicks relating to ads on Google Play. The positive effect on our revenues from an increase in paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The decrease in cost-per-click was driven by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product changes, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Impressions and cost-per-impression
The following table presents changes in our impressions and cost-per-impression (expressed as a percentage):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 
Impressions change | 15 | %
Cost-per-impression change | (8) | %

Impressions increased from 2019 to 2020 primarily due to growth in Google Ad Manager. The positive effect on our revenues from an increase in impressions was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-impression paid by our advertisers which was driven by a reduction in advertiser spending in response to COVID-19, primarily during the first half of the year, as well as the effect of a combination of factors including ongoing product and policy changes and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, changes in device mix, geographic mix, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Google other revenues
Google other revenues consist primarily of revenues from: 
•Google Play, which includes revenues from sales of apps and in-app purchases (which we recognize net of payout to developers) and digital content sold in the Google Play store; 
•hardware, including Google Nest home products, Pixelbooks, Pixel phones and other devices; 
•YouTube non-advertising, including YouTube Premium and YouTube TV subscriptions and other services; and
•other products and services.

Alphabet Inc.

Google other revenues increased $4,697 million from 2019 to 2020. The growth was primarily driven by Google Play and YouTube non-advertising. Growth for Google Play was primarily driven by sales of apps and in-app purchases, which benefited from elevated user engagement partially due to the impact of COVID-19. Growth for YouTube non-advertising was primarily driven by an increase in paid subscribers. 
Over time, our growth rate for Google other revenues may be affected by the seasonality associated with new product and service launches as well as market dynamics.
Google Cloud
Our Google Cloud revenues increased $4,141 million from 2019 to 2020. The growth was primarily driven by GCP followed by our Google Workspace offerings. Our infrastructure and our data and analytics platform products were the largest drivers of growth in GCP.
Over time, our growth rate for Google Cloud revenues may be affected by customer usage, market dynamics, as well as new product and service launches.
Revenues by Geography
The following table presents our revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the addresses of our customers:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
United States | 46 | % | | 47 | %
EMEA | 31 | % | | 30 | %
APAC | 17 | % | | 18 | %
Other Americas | 6 | % | | 5 | %

For further details on revenues by geography, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Use of Constant Currency Revenues and Constant Currency Revenue Percentage Change
The effect of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period to period comparisons. Our international revenues are favorably affected as the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other foreign currencies, and unfavorably affected as the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other foreign currencies. Our revenues are also favorably affected by net hedging gains and unfavorably affected by net hedging losses.
We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues and non-GAAP percentage change in constant currency revenues for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") results helps improve the ability to understand our performance because they exclude the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.
Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and use it to determine the constant currency revenue percentage change on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging effects realized in the current period.
Constant currency revenue percentage change is calculated by determining the change in period revenues over prior period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues of both periods.
These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.

Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents the foreign exchange effect on our international revenues and total revenues (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
EMEA revenues | $ | 50,645 | | | $ | 55,370 
Exclude foreign exchange effect on current period revenues using prior year rates | 2,397 | | | (111) | 
EMEA constant currency revenues | $ | 53,042 | | | $ | 55,259 
Prior period EMEA revenues | $ | 44,739 | | | $ | 50,645 
EMEA revenue percentage change | 13 | % | | 9 | %
EMEA constant currency revenue percentage change | 19 | % | | 9 | %
APAC revenues | $ | 26,928 | | | $ | 32,550 
Exclude foreign exchange effect on current period revenues using prior year rates | 388 | | | 11 | 
APAC constant currency revenues | $ | 27,316 | | | $ | 32,561 
Prior period APAC revenues | $ | 21,341 | | | $ | 26,928 
APAC revenue percentage change | 26 | % | | 21 | %
APAC constant currency revenue percentage change | 28 | % | | 21 | %
Other Americas revenues | $ | 8,986 | | | $ | 9,417 
Exclude foreign exchange effect on current period revenues using prior year rates | 541 | | | 964 | 
Other Americas constant currency revenues | $ | 9,527 | | | $ | 10,381 
Prior period Other Americas revenues | $ | 7,608 | | | $ | 8,986 
Other Americas revenue percentage change | 18 | % | | 5 | %
Other Americas constant currency revenue percentage change | 25 | % | | 16 | %
United States revenues | $ | 74,843 | | | $ | 85,014 
United States revenue percentage change | 18 | % | | 14 | %
Hedging gains (losses) | 455 | | | 176 | 
Total revenues | $ | 161,857 | | | $ | 182,527
Total constant currency revenues | $ | 164,728 | | | $ | 183,215
Prior period revenues, excluding hedging effect(1) | $ | 136,957 | | | $ | 161,402
Total revenue percentage change | 18 | % | | 13 | %
Total constant currency revenue percentage change | 20 | % | | 14 | %

(1)    Total revenues and hedging gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2018 were $136,819 million and $(138) million, respectively.
EMEA revenue percentage change from 2019 to 2020 was not significantly affected by foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Euro offset by the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Turkish lira and Russian ruble.
APAC revenue percentage change from 2019 to 2020 was not significantly affected by foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Indian rupee, partially offset by the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Japanese yen.
Other Americas revenue percentage change from 2019 to 2020 was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Brazilian real and Argentine peso. 

Alphabet Inc.

Costs and Operating Expenses
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues includes TAC which are paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services, and amounts paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
The cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network Members' properties are significantly higher than the cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google properties (which includes Google Search & other and YouTube ads), because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network Members’ properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network Members.
Additionally, other cost of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) includes the following:
•Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube advertising and subscription services and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);
•Expenses associated with our data centers (including bandwidth, compensation expenses including stock-based compensation ("SBC"), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs) as well as other operations costs (such as content review and customer support costs). These costs are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate with related changes in revenues; and
•Inventory related costs for hardware we sell. 
The following tables present our cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
TAC | $ | 30,089 | | | $ | 32,778
Other cost of revenues | 41,807 | | | 51,954 | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 71,896 | | | $ | 84,732
Total cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues | 44.4 | % | | 46.4 | %

Cost of revenues increased $12,836 million from 2019 to 2020. The increase was due to increases in other cost of revenues and TAC of $10,147 million and $2,689 million, respectively. 
The increase in other cost of revenues from 2019 to 2020 was due to an increase in data center and other operations costs and an increase in content acquisition costs primarily for YouTube. This increase was partially offset by a decline in hardware costs.
The increase in TAC from 2019 to 2020 was due to increases in TAC paid to distribution partners and to Google Network Members, driven by growth in revenues subject to TAC. The TAC rate was 22.3% in both 2019 and 2020. The TAC rate on Google properties revenues and the TAC rate on Google Network revenues were both substantially consistent from 2019 to 2020.
Over time, cost of revenues as a percentage of total revenues may be affected by a number of factors, including the following:
•The amount of TAC paid to distribution partners, which is affected by changes in device mix, geographic mix, partner mix, partner agreement terms such as revenue share arrangements, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points;
•The amount of TAC paid to Google Network Members, which is affected by a combination of factors such as geographic mix, product mix, and revenue share terms;
•Relative revenue growth rates of Google properties and Google Network Members' properties;
•Certain costs that are less variable in nature and may not correlate with the related revenues;
•Costs associated with our data centers and other operations to support ads, Google Cloud, Search, YouTube and other products;
•Content acquisition costs, which are primarily affected by the relative growth rates in our YouTube advertising and subscription revenues; 
•Costs related to hardware sales; and
•Increased proportion of non-advertising revenues, which generally have higher costs of revenues, relative to our advertising revenues.

Alphabet Inc.

Research and Development
The following table presents our R&D expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Research and development expenses | $ | 26,018 | | | $ | 27,573
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues | 16.1 | % | | 15.1 | %

R&D expenses consist primarily of:
•Compensation expenses (including SBC) for engineering and technical employees responsible for R&D of our existing and new products and services; 
•Depreciation expenses; 
•Equipment-related expenses; and
•Professional services fees primarily related to consulting and outsourcing services.
R&D expenses increased $1,555 million from 2019 to 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses of $1,619 million, largely resulting from a 11% increase in headcount and partially offset by higher compensation charges in certain Other Bets in 2019. Additionally, the increase in R&D expenses was partially offset by a decrease in travel and entertainment expenses of $383 million. 
Over time, R&D expenses as a percentage of revenues may fluctuate due to certain expenses that are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate to the changes in revenues. In addition, R&D expenses may be affected by a number of factors including continued investment in ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware, machine learning, Other Bets, Search and YouTube.
Sales and Marketing
The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Sales and marketing expenses | $ | 18,464 | | | $ | 17,946
Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues | 11.4 | % | | 9.8 | %

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of:
•Advertising and promotional expenditures related to our products and services; and
•Compensation expenses (including SBC) for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions.
Sales and marketing expenses decreased $518 million from 2019 to 2020. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in advertising and promotional expenses of $1,395 million, as we reduced spending and paused or rescheduled campaigns and changed some events to digital-only formats as a result of COVID-19, and a decrease in travel and entertainment expenses of $371 million. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in compensation expenses of $1,347 million, largely resulting from an 8% increase in headcount.
Over time, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues may fluctuate due to certain expenses that are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate to the changes in revenues. In addition, sales and marketing expenses may be affected by a number of factors including the seasonality associated with new product and service launches and strategic decisions regarding the timing and extent of our spending.
General and Administrative
The following table presents our general and administrative expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
General and administrative expenses | $ | 9,551 | | | $ | 11,052
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues | 5.9 | % | | 6.1 | %

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of:
•Compensation expenses (including SBC) for employees in our finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations; 
•Depreciation;

Alphabet Inc.

•Equipment-related expenses; 
•Legal-related expenses; and
•Professional services fees primarily related to audit, information technology consulting, outside legal, and outsourcing services.
General and administrative expenses increased $1,501 million from 2019 to 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses of $887 million, largely resulting from a 16% increase in headcount. In addition, there was an increase of $440 million related to allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable. The increase was partially offset by a $554 million charge recognized in 2019 relating to a legal settlement.
Over time, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues may fluctuate due to certain expenses that are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate to the changes in revenues, the effect of discrete items such as legal settlements, or allowances for credit losses for accounts receivable.
European Commission Fines
In March 2019, the EC announced its decision that certain contractual provisions in agreements that Google had with AdSense for Search partners infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019) fine, which was accrued in the first quarter of 2019.
Please refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
Segment Profitability
The following table presents our segment operating income (loss) (in millions). For comparative purposes, amounts in prior periods have been recast.

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
Operating income (loss): | | | | | 
Google Services | $ | 43,137 | | | $ | 48,999 | | $ | 54,606
Google Cloud | (4,348) | | | (4,645) | | | (5,607)
Other Bets | (3,358) | | | (4,824) | | | (4,476)
Corporate costs, unallocated(1) | (7,907) | | | (5,299) | | | (3,299)
Total income from operations | $ | 27,524 | | | $ | 34,231 | | $ | 41,224

(1)    Corporate costs, unallocated includes a fine of $5.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 and a fine and legal settlement totaling $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019.
Google Services
Google services operating income increased $5,607 million from 2019 to 2020. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in revenues partially offset by increases in content acquisition costs primarily for YouTube, data center and other operations costs, and TAC. Additionally, there was an increase in operating expenses primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) largely due to increases in headcount. Operating income benefited from a decline in hardware costs.
Google services operating income increased $5,862 million from 2018 to 2019. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in revenues partially offset by increases in TAC, data center and other operations costs, and content acquisition costs primarily for YouTube. Additionally, there was an increase in operating expenses primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) largely due to an increase in headcount.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud operating loss increased $962 million from 2019 to 2020 and increased $297 million from 2018 to 2019. The increase in operating loss in both periods was driven by an increase in total expenses of $5,103 million from 2019 to 2020 and $3,377 million from 2018 to 2019. Operating expenses increased primarily due to compensation expenses (including SBC), largely driven by an increase in headcount. Additionally, data center and other operating costs increased in both periods.
Other Bets
Other Bets operating loss decreased $348 million from 2019 to 2020 and increased $1,466 million from 2018 to 2019. The fluctuations were primarily driven by compensation expenses (including SBC).

Alphabet Inc.

Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table presents other income (expense), net, (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Other income (expense), net | $ | 5,394 | | $ | 6,858

Other income (expense), net, increased $1,464 million from 2019 to 2020. The change was primarily driven by an increase in net gains on equity and debt securities of $3,519 million, partially offset by a $902 million loss resulting from our equity derivatives, which hedged the changes in fair value of certain marketable equity securities, and a decrease in interest income of $562 million.
Over time, other income (expense), net, may be affected by market dynamics and other factors. Equity values generally change daily for marketable equity securities and upon the occurrence of observable price changes or upon impairment of non-marketable equity securities. In addition, volatility in the global economic climate and financial markets, including the effects of COVID-19, could result in a significant change in the value of our investments. Fluctuations in the value of these investments has, and we expect will continue to, contribute to volatility of OI&E in future periods. For additional information about our investments, see Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Provision for Income Taxes
The following table presents our provision for income taxes (in millions, except for effective tax rate):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Provision for income taxes | $ | 5,282 | | | $ | 7,813
Effective tax rate | 13.3 | % | | 16.2 | %

Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate increased from 2019 to 2020. The increase in the provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate is primarily due to benefits related to the resolution of multi-year audits in 2019 that did not recur in 2020, higher earnings in countries that have higher statutory rates resulting from the change in our corporate legal entity structure implemented as of December 31, 2019, and an increase in valuation allowance for net deferred tax assets that are not likely to be realized relating to certain of our Other Bets, partially offset by an increase in the U.S. federal Foreign-Derived Intangible Income tax deduction benefits. 
 See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
We expect our future effective tax rate to be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in countries with different statutory rates. Additionally, our future effective tax rate may be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items.

Alphabet Inc.

Quarterly Results of Operations
The following tables presenting our quarterly results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have prepared the unaudited information on the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements. Our operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future quarters or for a full year. 
The following table presents our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2020. This table includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that we consider necessary for a fair presentation of our consolidated financial position and operating results for the quarters presented. Seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and advertiser expenditures, underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality and macroeconomic conditions have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business (including developments and volatility arising from COVID-19). Commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends have caused, and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates.

 | Quarter Ended 
 | Mar 31,2019 | | Jun 30,2019 | | Sept 30,2019 | | Dec 31,2019 | Mar 31,2020 | | Jun 30,2020 | Sept 30,2020 | | Dec 31,2020
 | (In millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: | | | | | | | 
Revenues | $ | 36,339 | | | $ | 38,944 | | $ | 40,499 | | $ | 46,075 | | | $ | 41,159 | | $ | 38,297 | $ | 46,173 | 56,898 | 
Costs and expenses: | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 16,012 | | | 17,296 | | | 17,568 | | 21,020 | | 18,982 | | | 18,553 | | | 21,117 | | 26,080
Research and development | 6,029 | | | 6,213 | | | 6,554 | | 7,222 | | 6,820 | | | 6,875 | | | 6,856 | | 7,022 
Sales and marketing | 3,905 | | | 4,212 | | | 4,609 | | 5,738 | | 4,500 | | | 3,901 | | | 4,231 | | 5,314 
General and administrative | 2,088 | | | 2,043 | | | 2,591 | | 2,829 | | 2,880 | | | 2,585 | | | 2,756 | | 2,831 
European Commission fines | 1,697 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 
Total costs and expenses | 29,731 | | | 29,764 | | | 31,322 | | 36,809 | | 33,182 | | | 31,914 | | | 34,960 | | 41,247
Income from operations | 6,608 | | | 9,180 | | | 9,177 | | 9,266 | | 7,977 | | | 6,383 | | | 11,213 | | 15,651
Other income (expense), net | 1,538 | | | 2,967 | | | (549) | | 1,438 | | (220) | | | 1,894 | | | 2,146 | | 3,038 
Income before income taxes | 8,146 | | | 12,147 | | | 8,628 | | 10,704 | | 7,757 | | | 8,277 | | | 13,359 | | 18,689
Provision for income taxes | 1,489 | | | 2,200 | | | 1,560 | | 33 | | 921 | | | 1,318 | | | 2,112 | | 3,462 
Net income | $ | 6,657 | | | $ | 9,947 | | $ | 7,068 | | $ | 10,671 | | | $ | 6,836 | | $ | 6,959 | $ | 11,247 | 15,227 | 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 9.58 | | | $ | 14.33 | | $ | 10.20 | | $ | 15.49 | | | $ | 9.96 | | $ | 10.21 | $ | 16.55 | $ | 22.54
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 9.50 | | | $ | 14.21 | | $ | 10.12 | | $ | 15.35 | | | $ | 9.87 | | $ | 10.13 | $ | 16.40 | $ | 22.30

Financial Condition
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
As of December 31, 2020, we had $136.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and marketable equity securities.
Sources, Uses of Cash and Related Trends
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from our operations. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace and form of capital return to stockholders.

Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents our cash flows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 54,520 | | $ | 65,124 
Net cash used in investing activities | $ | (29,491) | | $ | (32,773)
Net cash used in financing activities | $ | (23,209) | | $ | (24,408)

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Our largest source of cash provided by our operations are advertising revenues generated by Google Search & other properties, Google Network Members' properties and YouTube ads. Additionally, we generate cash through sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees including fees received for Google Cloud offerings and subscription-based products.
Our primary uses of cash from our operating activities include compensation and related costs, payments to our distribution partners and Google Network Members, and payments for content acquisition costs. In addition, uses of cash from operating activities include hardware inventory costs, income taxes, and other general corporate expenditures.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2019 to 2020 primarily due to the net effect of increases in cash received from revenues and cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses, and changes in operating assets and liabilities.
Cash Used in Investing Activities
Cash provided by investing activities consists primarily of maturities and sales of our investments in marketable and non-marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of purchases of marketable and non-marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment, and payments for acquisitions.
Net cash used in investing activities increased from 2019 to 2020 primarily due to a net increase in purchases of securities, partially offset by decreases in payments for acquisitions and purchases of property and equipment. The net decrease in purchases of property and equipment was driven by decreases in purchases of land and buildings for offices as well as data center construction, partially offset by increases in purchases of servers.
Cash Used in Financing Activities
Cash provided by financing activities consists primarily of proceeds from issuance of debt and proceeds from the sale of interest in consolidated entities. Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of repurchases of capital stock, net payments related to stock-based award activities, and repayments of debt.
Net cash used in financing activities increased from 2019 to 2020 primarily due to an increase in cash payments for repurchases of capital stock, partially offset by increases in net proceeds from issuance of debt and proceeds from the sale of interest in consolidated entities.
Liquidity and Material Cash Requirements
We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash flows from operations and financing activities to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.
As of December 31, 2020, we had long-term taxes payable of $6.5 billion related to a one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). As permitted by the Tax Act, we will pay the transition tax in annual interest-free installments through 2025.
In 2017, 2018 and 2019, the EC announced decisions that certain actions taken by Google infringed European competition law and imposed fines of €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017), €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018), and €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019), respectively. While each EC decision is under appeal, we included the fines in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines. 
In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand, for $2.1 billion.
We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2020, we had no commercial paper outstanding. As of December 31, 2020, we have $4.0 billion of revolving credit facilities expiring 

Alphabet Inc.

in July 2023 with no amounts outstanding. The interest rate for the credit facilities is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. 
In August 2020, we issued $10.0 billion of fixed-rate senior unsecured notes in six tranches: $1.0 billion due in 2025, $1.0 billion due in 2027, $2.25 billion due in 2030, $1.25 billion due in 2040, $2.5 billion due in 2050 and $2.0 billion due in 2060. The 2020 Notes had a weighted average duration of 21.5 years and weighted average coupon rate of 1.57%. Of the total issuance, $5.75 billion was designated as Sustainability Bonds, the net proceeds of which are used to fund environmentally and socially responsible projects in the following eight areas: energy efficiency, clean energy, green buildings, clean transportation, circular economy and design, affordable housing, commitment to racial equity, and support for small businesses and COVID-19 crisis response. The remaining net proceeds are used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2020, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding with a total carrying value of $13.8 billion. Refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the debts.
In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, in 2020 we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $31.1 billion. As of December 31, 2020, $17.6 billion remains authorized and available for repurchase. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Capital Expenditures and Leases
We make investments in land and buildings for data centers and offices and information technology assets through purchases of property and equipment and lease arrangements to provide capacity for the growth of our services and products. 
Our capital investments in property and equipment consist primarily of the following major categories:
•Technical infrastructure, which consists of our investments in servers and network equipment for compute, storage and networking requirements for ongoing business activities, including machine learning, (collectively referred to as our information technology assets) and data center land and building construction; and
•Office facilities, ground up development projects and related building improvements.
Due to the integrated nature of Alphabet, our technical infrastructure and office facilities are managed centrally at a consolidated level. The associated costs, including depreciation and impairment, are allocated to operating segments as a service cost generally based on usage or headcount. Our technical infrastructure investments are designed to support all of Alphabet, including primarily ads, Google Cloud, Search, and YouTube.
Construction in progress consists primarily of technical infrastructure and office facilities which have not yet been placed in service for our intended use. The time frame from date of purchase to placement in service of these assets may extend to multiple periods. For example, our data center construction projects are generally multi-year projects with multiple phases, where we acquire qualified land and buildings, construct buildings, and secure and install information technology assets. 
During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020, we spent $23.5 billion and $22.3 billion on capital expenditures and recognized total operating lease assets of $4.4 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, the amount of total future lease payments under operating leases, which had a weighted average remaining lease term of 9 years, was $15.1 billion. As of December 31, 2020, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future lease payments of $8.0 billion, excluding purchase options, that are not yet recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between 2021 and 2026 with non-cancelable lease terms of 1 to 25 years.
Depreciation of our property and equipment commences when the deployment of such assets are completed and are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated. For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020, our depreciation and impairment expenses on property and equipment were $10.9 billion and $12.9 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020, our operating lease expenses (including variable lease costs), were $2.4 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. Finance leases were not material for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020. Please refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the leases.

Alphabet Inc.

Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2020
The following summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020 (in millions):

 | Payments Due By Period
 | Total | | Less than1 year | | 1-3years | | 3-5years | More than5 years
Operating lease obligations(1) | $ | 15,091 | | | $ | 2,198 | | $ | 4,165 | $ | 3,127 | $ | 5,601 
Obligations for leases that have not yet commenced(1) | 8,049 | | | 370 | | | 1,198 | | 1,469 | 5,012 | 
Purchase obligations(2) | 10,656 | | | 7,368 | | | 1,968 | | 354 | 966 | 
Long-term debt obligations(3) | 19,840 | | | 1,357 | | | 634 | | 2,587 | 15,262 | 
Tax payable(4) | 7,359 | | | 834 | | | 1,916 | | 4,609 | 0 | 
Other long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet(5) | 1,421 | | | 532 | | | 616 | | 185 | 88 | 
Total contractual obligations | $ | 62,416 | | | $ | 12,659 | | $ | 10,497 | $ | 12,331 | $ | 26,929

(1)    For further information, refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(2)    Represents non-cancelable contractual obligations primarily related to data center operations and build-outs; information technology assets; purchases of inventory; and digital media content licensing arrangements. The amounts included above represent the non-cancelable portion of agreements or the minimum cancellation fee. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of December 31, 2020. Excluded from the table above are open orders for purchases that support normal operations, which are generally cancelable.
(3)    Represents our principal and interest payments. For further information on long-term debt, refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(4)    Represents one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the Tax Act. For further information, refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Excluded from the table above are long-term taxes payable of $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2020 primarily related to uncertain tax positions, for which we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing and outcomes of tax audits.
(5)    Represents cash obligations recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, including the short-term portion of these long-term liabilities, primarily for certain commercial agreements. These amounts do not include the EC fines which are classified as current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For further information regarding the EC fines, refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of December 31, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information on our commitments and contingencies.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, gains and losses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations will be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit and compliance committee of our Board of Directors.
Please see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of significant accounting policies and the effect on our financial statements.

Alphabet Inc.

Revenues
For the sale of third-party goods and services, we evaluate whether we are the principal, and report revenues on a gross basis, or an agent, and report revenues on a net basis. In this assessment, we consider if we obtain control of the specified goods or services before they are transferred to the customer, as well as other indicators such as the party primarily responsible for fulfillment, inventory risk, and discretion in establishing price.
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes.
Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made.
The provision for income taxes includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Services ("IRS") and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Loss Contingencies
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury consumer protection, and other matters. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood of there being, and the estimated amount of, a loss related to such matters. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Long-lived Assets
Long-lived assets, including property and equipment, long-term prepayments, and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows independent of other assets. An impairment loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows generated from the assets are less than their carrying amount. Measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value.
Fair Value Measurements
We measure certain of our non-marketable equity and debt investments, certain other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled in the stock of certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. The determination of fair value involves the use of appropriate valuation methods and relevant inputs into valuation models. The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value whereby it gives the highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs. We maximize the use of relevant observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Our use of unobservable inputs reflects the assumptions that market participants would use and may include our own data adjusted based on reasonably available information. We apply judgment in assessing the relevance of observable market data to determine the priority of inputs under the fair value hierarchy, particularly in situations where there is very little or no market activity.

Alphabet Inc.

In determining the fair values of our non-marketable equity and debt investments, as well as assets acquired (especially with respect to intangible assets) and liabilities assumed in business combinations, we make significant estimates and assumptions, some of which include the use of unobservable inputs.
Certain stock-based compensation awards may be settled in the stock of certain of our Other Bets or in cash. These awards are based on the equity values of the respective Other Bet, which requires use of unobservable inputs.
We also have compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized investment returns, i.e. performance fees. We recognize compensation expense based on the estimated payouts, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized, and may require the use of unobservable inputs.
Non-marketable Equity Securities
Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are carried either at fair value or under the measurement alternative. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value is measured at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. Determining whether an observed transaction is similar to a security within our portfolio requires judgment based on the rights and obligations of the securities. Recording upward and downward adjustments to the carrying value of our equity securities as a result of observable price changes requires quantitative assessments of the fair value of our securities using various valuation methodologies and involves the use of estimates.
Non-marketable equity securities are also subject to periodic impairment reviews. Our quarterly impairment analysis considers both qualitative and quantitative factors that may have a significant effect on the investment's fair value. Qualitative factors considered include the companies' financial and liquidity position, access to capital resources and the time since the last adjustment to fair value, among others. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare quantitative assessments of the fair value of our equity investments using both the market and income approaches which require judgment and the use of estimates, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data of private and public companies, among others. When our assessment indicates that an impairment exists, we write down the investment to its fair value.
Change in Accounting Estimate
In January 2021, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment and determined we should adjust the estimated useful life of our servers from three years to four years and the estimated useful life of certain network equipment from three years to five years. This change in accounting estimate will be effective beginning fiscal year 2021. For assets that are in-service as of December 31, 2020, we expect operating results to be favorably impacted by approximately $2.1 billion for the full fiscal year 2021. The effect of the change may be different due to our capital investments during the fiscal year 2021.
ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity investment risks. 
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We transact business globally in multiple currencies. Our international revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro and Japanese yen. For the purpose of analyzing foreign currency exchange risk, we considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% could be experienced in the near term.
We use foreign exchange forward contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary. These forward contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on the assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which are offset by the gains and losses on the forward contracts.
If an adverse 10% foreign currency exchange rate change was applied to total monetary assets, liabilities, and commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies at the balance sheet date, it would have resulted in an adverse effect on income before income taxes of approximately $8 million and $497 million as of 

Alphabet Inc.

December 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively, after consideration of the effect of foreign exchange contracts in place for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020.
We use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) to protect our forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency options and forwards reduce the foreign currency losses related to our earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency collars and forwards offset the foreign currency gains related to our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. We reflect the gains or losses of foreign currency spot rate changes as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassify them into revenues to offset the hedged exposures as they occur. 
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10% as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, the amount recorded in AOCI related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been approximately $1.1 billion and $912 million lower as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. The change in the value recorded in AOCI would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in forecasted hedged revenues when recognized.
We use foreign exchange forward contracts designated as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to our investment in foreign subsidiaries. These forward contracts serve to offset the foreign currency translation risk from our foreign operations.
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10%, the amount recorded in cumulative translation adjustment ("CTA") within AOCI related to our net investment hedge would have been approximately $936 million and $1 billion lower as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. The change in value recorded in CTA would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency translation gain or loss from our investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Interest Rate Risk
Our Corporate Treasury investment strategy is to achieve a return that will allow us to preserve capital and maintain liquidity. We invest primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. By policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Unrealized gains or losses on our marketable debt securities are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations as compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. For certain fixed and variable rate debt securities, we have elected the fair value option for which changes in fair value are recorded in other income (expense), net. We measure securities for which we have not elected the fair value option at fair value with gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold, less any expected credit losses. 
We use value-at-risk ("VaR") analysis to determine the potential effect of fluctuations in interest rates on the value of our marketable debt security portfolio. The VaR is the expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due to adverse movements in interest rates. We use a variance/covariance VaR model with 95% confidence interval. The estimated one-day loss in fair value of our marketable debt securities as of December 31, 2019 and 2020 are shown below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, | | 12-Month Average As of December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020 | 2019 | | 2020
Risk Category - Interest Rate | $ | 104 | | $ | 144 | | $ | 90 | $ | 145

Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2019 and 2020 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes in interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. VaR analysis is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation.
Equity Investment Risk
Our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings.
Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks or funds and our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages.

Alphabet Inc.

We record our marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method at fair value based on readily determinable market values, of which publicly traded stocks and mutual funds are subject to market price volatility, and represent $3.3 billion and $5.9 billion of our investments as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. A hypothetical adverse price change of 30% on our December 31, 2020 balance, which could be experienced in the near term, would decrease the fair value of our marketable equity securities by $1.8 billion. From time to time, we may enter into derivatives to hedge the market price risk on certain of our marketable equity securities.
Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment (referred to as the measurement alternative). The fair value measured at the time of the observable transaction is not necessarily an indication of the current fair value as of the balance sheet date. These investments, especially those that are in the early stages, are inherently risky because the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early phases and may never materialize and they may experience a decline in financial condition, which could result in a loss of a substantial part of our investment in these companies. The success of our investment in any private company is also typically dependent on the likelihood of our ability to realize appreciation in the value of our investments through liquidity events such as public offerings, acquisitions, private sales or other market events. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities, which were accounted for under the measurement alternative, was $11.4 billion and $18.9 billion, respectively. Valuations of our equity investments in private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. Volatility in the global economic climate and financial markets could result in a significant impairment charge relating to our non-marketable equity securities. Changes in valuation of non-marketable equity securities may not directly correlate with changes in valuation of marketable equity securities. Additionally, observable transactions at lower valuations could result in significant losses on our non-marketable equity securities. The effect of COVID-19 on our impairment assessment requires significant judgment due to the uncertainty around the duration and severity of the impact.
The carrying values of our equity method investments, which totaled approximately $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively, generally do not fluctuate based on market price changes, however these investments could be impaired if the carrying value exceeds the fair value and is not expected to recover.
For further information about our equity investments, please refer to Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Alphabet Inc.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 | Page
Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 51 
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 

The supplementary financial information required by this Item 8 is included in Item 7 under the caption “Quarterly Results of Operations.”

Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15 (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2019 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 2, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. 

Alphabet Inc.

Loss Contingencies 

Description of the Matter | The Company is regularly subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by its users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using their platforms, and other matters. As described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements “Commitments and Contingencies” such claims could result in adverse consequences.Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood, and the estimated amount, of a loss related to such matters. Auditing management’s accounting for and disclosure of loss contingencies from these matters involved challenging and subjective auditor judgment in assessing the Company’s evaluation of the probability of a loss, and the estimated amount or range of loss.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit | We tested relevant controls over the identified risks associated with management’s accounting for and disclosure of these matters. This included controls over management’s assessment of the probability of incurrence of a loss and whether the loss or range of loss was reasonably estimable and the development of related disclosures.Our audit procedures included gaining an understanding of previous rulings issued by regulators and the status of ongoing lawsuits, reviewing letters addressing the matters from internal and external legal counsel, meeting with internal legal counsel to discuss the allegations, and obtaining a representation letter from management on these matters. We also evaluated the Company’s disclosures in relation to these matters. 


/s/ Ernst & Young LLP 
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1999.
San Jose, California 
February 2, 2021 


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Alphabet Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Alphabet Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the 2020 consolidated financial statements of the Company and our report dated February 2, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 2, 2021 


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands, and par value per share amounts)

 | As of December 31, 2019 | | As ofDecember 31, 2020
Assets | | | 
Current assets: | | | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 18,498 | | | $ | 26,465 
Marketable securities | 101,177 | | | 110,229 | 
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | 119,675 | | | 136,694 | 
Accounts receivable, net | 25,326 | | | 30,930 | 
Income taxes receivable, net | 2,166 | | | 454 | 
Inventory | 999 | | | 728 | 
Other current assets | 4,412 | | | 5,490 | 
Total current assets | 152,578 | | | 174,296 | 
Non-marketable investments | 13,078 | | | 20,703 | 
Deferred income taxes | 721 | | | 1,084 | 
Property and equipment, net | 73,646 | | | 84,749 | 
Operating lease assets | 10,941 | | | 12,211 | 
Intangible assets, net | 1,979 | | | 1,445 | 
Goodwill | 20,624 | | | 21,175 | 
Other non-current assets | 2,342 | | | 3,953 | 
Total assets | $ | 275,909 | | | $ | 319,616
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity | | | 
Current liabilities: | | | 
Accounts payable | $ | 5,561 | | | $ | 5,589 
Accrued compensation and benefits | 8,495 | | | 11,086 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 23,067 | | | 28,631 | 
Accrued revenue share | 5,916 | | | 7,500 | 
Deferred revenue | 1,908 | | | 2,543 | 
Income taxes payable, net | 274 | | | 1,485 | 
Total current liabilities | 45,221 | | | 56,834 | 
Long-term debt | 4,554 | | | 13,932 | 
Deferred revenue, non-current | 358 | | | 481 | 
Income taxes payable, non-current | 9,885 | | | 8,849 | 
Deferred income taxes | 1,701 | | | 3,561 | 
Operating lease liabilities | 10,214 | | | 11,146 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 2,534 | | | 2,269 | 
Total liabilities | 74,467 | | | 97,072 | 
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 10) | | | 
Stockholders’ equity: | | | 
Convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share, 100,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding | 0 | | | 0 | 
Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.001 par value per share: 15,000,000 shares authorized (Class A 9,000,000, Class B 3,000,000, Class C 3,000,000); 688,335 (Class A 299,828, Class B 46,441, Class C 342,066) and 675,222 (Class A 300,730, Class B 45,843, Class C 328,649) shares issued and outstanding | 50,552 | | | 58,510 | 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,232) | | | 633 | 
Retained earnings | 152,122 | | | 163,401 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 201,442 | | | 222,544 | 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity | $ | 275,909 | | | $ | 319,616

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
Revenues | $ | 136,819 | | | $ | 161,857 | | $ | 182,527
Costs and expenses: | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 59,549 | | | 71,896 | | | 84,732 
Research and development | 21,419 | | | 26,018 | | | 27,573 
Sales and marketing | 16,333 | | | 18,464 | | | 17,946 
General and administrative | 6,923 | | | 9,551 | | | 11,052 
European Commission fines | 5,071 | | | 1,697 | | | 0 
Total costs and expenses | 109,295 | | | 127,626 | | | 141,303
Income from operations | 27,524 | | | 34,231 | | | 41,224 
Other income (expense), net | 7,389 | | | 5,394 | | | 6,858 
Income before income taxes | 34,913 | | | 39,625 | | | 48,082 
Provision for income taxes | 4,177 | | | 5,282 | | | 7,813 
Net income | $ | 30,736 | | | $ | 34,343 | | $ | 40,269 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 44.22 | | | $ | 49.59 | | $ | 59.15 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 43.70 | | | $ | 49.16 | | $ | 58.61 

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
Net income | $ | 30,736 | | | $ | 34,343 | | $ | 40,269
Other comprehensive income (loss): | | | | | 
Change in foreign currency translation adjustment | (781) | | | (119) | | | 1,139
Available-for-sale investments: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 88 | | | 1,611 | | | 1,313
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (911) | | | (111) | | | (513)
Net change, net of tax benefit (expense) of $156, $(221), and $(230) | (823) | | | 1,500 | | | 800 
Cash flow hedges: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 290 | | | 22 | | | 42 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | 98 | | | (299) | | | (116)
Net change, net of tax benefit (expense) of $(103), $42, and $11 | 388 | | | (277) | | | (74) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,216) | | | 1,104 | | | 1,865
Comprehensive income | $ | 29,520 | | | $ | 35,447 | | $ | 42,134

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands)

 | Class A and Class BCommon Stock, Class C Capital Stock andAdditional Paid-In Capital | AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss) | | RetainedEarnings | TotalStockholders’Equity
 | Shares | Amount | 
Balance as of December 31, 2017 | 694,783 | | $ | 40,247 | | $ | (992) | | $ | 113,247 | $ | 152,502
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | 0 | | (98) | | | (599) | | (697) 
Common and capital stock issued | 8,975 | | 148 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 148 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 9,353 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 9,353 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | 0 | | (4,782) | | 0 | | | 0 | | (4,782) 
Repurchases of capital stock | (8,202) | | (576) | | 0 | | | (8,499) | | (9,075) 
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | 659 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 659 
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 30,736 | | 30,736 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | (1,216) | | | 0 | | (1,216) 
Balance as of December 31, 2018 | 695,556 | | 45,049 | | (2,306) | | | 134,885 | | 177,628 
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | 0 | | (30) | | | (4) | | (34) 
Common and capital stock issued | 8,120 | | 202 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 202 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 10,890 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 10,890 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | (4,455) | | 0 | | | 0 | | (4,455) 
Repurchases of capital stock | (15,341) | | (1,294) | | 0 | | | (17,102) | | (18,396)
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | 160 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 160 
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 34,343 | | 34,343 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | 1,104 | | | 0 | | 1,104 
Balance as of December 31, 2019 | 688,335 | | 50,552 | | (1,232) | | | 152,122 | | 201,442 
Common and capital stock issued | 8,398 | | 168 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 168 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | 13,123 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 13,123 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | (5,969) | | 0 | | | 0 | | (5,969) 
Repurchases of capital stock | (21,511) | | (2,159) | | 0 | | | (28,990) | | (31,149)
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | 2,795 | | 0 | | | 0 | | 2,795 
Net income | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 40,269 | | 40,269 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | 0 | | 1,865 | | | 0 | | 1,865 
Balance as of December 31, 2020 | 675,222 | | $ | 58,510 | | $ | 633 | | $ | 163,401 | $ | 222,544

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
Operating activities | | | | | 
Net income | $ | 30,736 | | | $ | 34,343 | | $ | 40,269
Adjustments: | | | | | 
Depreciation and impairment of property and equipment | 8,164 | | | 10,856 | | | 12,905 
Amortization and impairment of intangible assets | 871 | | | 925 | | | 792 
Stock-based compensation expense | 9,353 | | | 10,794 | | | 12,991 
Deferred income taxes | 778 | | | 173 | | | 1,390 
Gain on debt and equity securities, net | (6,650) | | | (2,798) | | | (6,317) 
Other | (189) | | | (592) | | | 1,267 
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions: | | | | | 
Accounts receivable | (2,169) | | | (4,340) | | | (6,524) 
Income taxes, net | (2,251) | | | (3,128) | | | 1,209 
Other assets | (1,207) | | | (621) | | | (1,330) 
Accounts payable | 1,067 | | | 428 | | | 694 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities | 8,614 | | | 7,170 | | | 5,504 
Accrued revenue share | 483 | | | 1,273 | | | 1,639 
Deferred revenue | 371 | | | 37 | | | 635 
Net cash provided by operating activities | 47,971 | | | 54,520 | | | 65,124 
Investing activities | | | | | 
Purchases of property and equipment | (25,139) | | | (23,548) | | | (22,281) 
Purchases of marketable securities | (50,158) | | | (100,315) | | | (136,576)
Maturities and sales of marketable securities | 48,507 | | | 97,825 | | | 132,906 
Purchases of non-marketable investments | (2,073) | | | (1,932) | | | (7,175) 
Maturities and sales of non-marketable investments | 1,752 | | | 405 | | | 1,023 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible assets | (1,491) | | | (2,515) | | | (738) 
Other investing activities | 98 | | | 589 | | | 68 
Net cash used in investing activities | (28,504) | | | (29,491) | | | (32,773) 
Financing activities | | | | | 
Net payments related to stock-based award activities | (4,993) | | | (4,765) | | | (5,720) 
Repurchases of capital stock | (9,075) | | | (18,396) | | | (31,149) 
Proceeds from issuance of debt, net of costs | 6,766 | | | 317 | | | 11,761 
Repayments of debt | (6,827) | | | (585) | | | (2,100) 
Proceeds from sale of interest in consolidated entities, net | 950 | | | 220 | | | 2,800 
Net cash used in financing activities | (13,179) | | | (23,209) | | | (24,408) 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents | (302) | | | (23) | | | 24 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents | 5,986 | | | 1,797 | | | 7,967 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period | 10,715 | | | 16,701 | | | 18,498 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period | $ | 16,701 | | | $ | 18,498 | | $ | 26,465
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information | | | | | 
Cash paid for taxes, net of refunds | $ | 5,671 | | | $ | 8,203 | | $ | 4,990 

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Nature of Operations
Google was incorporated in California in September 1998 and re-incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2003. In 2015, we implemented a holding company reorganization, and as a result, Alphabet Inc. ("Alphabet") became the successor issuer to Google.
We generate revenues by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising, cloud-based solutions that provide customers with platforms, collaboration tools and services, and sales of other products and services, such as apps and in-app purchases, digital content and subscriptions for digital content, and hardware.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet include the accounts of Alphabet and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.Use of Estimates
Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the allowance for credit losses, fair values of financial instruments (including non-marketable equity securities), intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, income taxes, and contingent liabilities, among others. We base our estimates on assumptions, both historical and forward looking, that are believed to be reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
As of December 31, 2020 the impact of COVID-19 continues to unfold and the extent of the impact will depend on a number of factors, including the duration and severity of the pandemic; the uneven impact to certain industries; advances in testing, treatment and prevention; and the macroeconomic impact of government measures to contain the spread of the virus and related government stimulus measures. As a result, certain of our estimates and assumptions, including the allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, the credit worthiness of customers entering into revenue arrangements, the valuation of non-marketable equity securities, including our impairment assessment, and the fair values of our financial instruments require increased judgment and carry a higher degree of variability and volatility that could result in material changes to our estimates in future periods.
In January 2021, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment and determined we should adjust the estimated useful life of our servers from three years to four years and the estimated useful life of certain network equipment from three years to five years. This change in accounting estimate will be effective beginning fiscal year 2021.
Revenue Recognition
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers and the collectibility of an amount that we expect in exchange for those goods or services is probable. Sales and other similar taxes are excluded from revenues. 
Advertising Revenues
We generate advertising revenues primarily by delivering advertising on Google Search & other properties, including Google.com, the Google Search app, Google Play, Gmail and Google Maps; YouTube, and Google Network Members’ properties.
Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through Google Ads, Google Ad Manager and Google Marketing Platform, among others.
We offer advertising by delivering both performance and brand advertising. We recognize revenues for performance advertising when a user engages with the advertisement, such as a click, a view, or a purchase. For brand advertising, we recognize revenues when the ad is displayed or a user views the ad.
For ads placed on Google Network Members’ properties, we evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis). Generally, we report advertising revenues 

Alphabet Inc.

for ads placed on Google Network Members’ properties on a gross basis, that is, the amounts billed to our customers are recorded as revenues, and amounts paid to Google Network Members are recorded as cost of revenues. Where we are the principal, we control the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers. Our control is evidenced by our sole ability to monetize the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers, and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing.
Google Cloud Revenues
Google Cloud revenues consist primarily of fees received for Google Cloud Platform services (which includes infrastructure and data analytics platform products and other services) and Google Workspace (formerly G Suite) collaboration tools and other enterprise services. Our cloud services are generally provided on either a consumption or subscription basis. Revenues related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis are recognized when the customer utilizes the services, based on the quantity of services consumed. Revenues related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis are recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services.
Other Revenues 
Google other revenues and Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues from:
•Google Play, which includes revenues from sale of apps and in-app purchases (which we recognize net of payout to developers) and digital content sold in the Google Play store;
•hardware, including Google Nest home products, Pixelbooks, Pixel phones and other devices;
•YouTube non-advertising services including, YouTube premium and YouTube TV subscriptions and other services; and
•other products and services.
As it relates to Google other revenues, the most significant judgment is determining whether we are the principal or agent for app sales and in-app purchases through the Google Play store. We report revenues from these transactions on a net basis because our performance obligation is to facilitate a transaction between app developers and end users, for which we earn a commission. Consequently, the portion of the gross amount billed to end users that is remitted to app developers is not reflected as revenues.
Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations
Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We generally determine standalone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus margin.
Customer Incentives and Credits
Certain customers receive cash-based incentives or credits, which are accounted for as variable consideration. We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenues. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration.
Sales Commissions
We expense sales commissions when incurred when the amortization period is one year or less. We recognize an asset for certain sales commissions if we expect the period of benefit of these costs to exceed one year and amortize it over the period of expected benefit. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of TAC and other costs of revenues.
TAC represents the amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services and amounts paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
Other cost of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) includes the following:
•Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube advertising and subscription services and Google Play. We pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee;

Alphabet Inc.

•Expenses associated with our data centers and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expense (including SBC), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and
•Inventory related costs for hardware we sell.
Software Development Costs
We expense software development costs, including costs to develop software products or the software component of products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, before technological feasibility is reached. Technological feasibility is typically reached shortly before the release of such products and as a result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented.
Software development costs also include costs to develop software to be used solely to meet internal needs and cloud based applications used to deliver our services. We capitalize development costs related to these software applications once the preliminary project stage is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented.
Stock-based Compensation
Stock-based compensation primarily consists of Alphabet restricted stock units ("RSUs"). RSUs are equity classified and measured at the fair market value of the underlying stock at the grant date. We recognize RSU expense using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period and account for forfeitures as they occur.
For RSUs, shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the applicable statutory tax withholding to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, fewer shares are issued than the number of RSUs outstanding and the tax withholding is recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital.
Additionally, stock-based compensation also includes other stock-based awards, such as performance stock units ("PSUs") and awards that may be settled in cash or the stock of certain Other Bets. PSUs and certain Other Bet awards are equity classified and expense is recognized over the requisite service period. Certain Other Bet awards are liability classified and remeasured at fair value through settlement. The fair value of Other Bet awards is based on the equity valuation of the respective Other Bet.
Advertising and Promotional Expenses
We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $6.4 billion, $6.8 billion, and $5.4 billion, respectively.
Performance Fees
Performance fees refer to compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized investment returns. We recognize compensation expense based on the estimated payouts, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized. Performance fees, which are primarily related to gains on equity securities, are recorded as a component of other income (expense), net.
Certain Risks and Concentrations
Our revenues are primarily derived from online advertising, the market for which is highly competitive and rapidly changing. In addition, our revenues are generated from a multitude of markets in countries around the world. Significant changes in this industry or changes in customer buying or advertiser spending behavior could adversely affect our operating results.
No individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than 10% of our revenues in 2018, 2019, or 2020. In 2018, 2019, and 2020, we generated approximately 46%, 46%, and 47% of our revenues, respectively, from customers based in the U.S.
We are subject to concentrations of credit risk principally from cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. We manage our credit risk exposure through timely assessment of our counterparty creditworthiness, credit limits and use of collateral management.
Cash equivalents and marketable securities consist primarily of time deposits, money market and other funds, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments issued by foreign governments, debt instruments issued by municipalities in the U.S., corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from 

Alphabet Inc.

customers located around the world. We perform ongoing evaluations to determine customer credit and we limit the amount of credit we extend. We generally do not require collateral from our customers. 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative contracts, and non-marketable debt securities. Our financial assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include non-marketable equity securities, which are adjusted to fair value when observable price changes are identified or when the non-marketable equity securities are impaired (referred to as the measurement alternative). Other financial assets and liabilities are carried at cost with fair value disclosed, if required.
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured and classified in accordance with a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the observability of the inputs available in the market used to measure fair value:
Level 1 - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2 - Inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activities.
The fair value hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
We invest all excess cash primarily in government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, time deposits, and money market funds.
We classify all marketable debt securities that have stated maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase as cash equivalents and those with stated maturities of greater than three months as marketable securities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. We have classified and accounted for our marketable debt securities as available-for-sale. After consideration of our risk versus reward objectives, as well as our liquidity requirements, we may sell these debt securities prior to their stated maturities. As we view these securities as available to support current operations, we classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond 12 months as current assets under the caption marketable securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We carry these securities at fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, as a component of stockholders’ equity, except for the changes in allowance for expected credit losses, which are recorded in other income (expense), net. For certain marketable debt securities we have elected the fair value option, for which changes in fair value are recorded in other income (expense), net. We determine any realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable debt securities on a specific identification method, and we record such gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net.
Our investments in marketable equity securities are measured at fair value with the related gains and losses, realized and unrealized, recognized in other income (expense), net.
Accounts Receivable
Our payment terms for accounts receivable vary by the type and location of our customer and the products or services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customers, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer. 

Alphabet Inc.

We maintain an allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, which is recorded as an offset to accounts receivable and changes in such are classified as general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. We assess collectibility by reviewing accounts receivable on a collective basis where similar characteristics exist and on an individual basis when we identify specific customers with known disputes or collectibility issues. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we consider historical collectibility based on past due status and make judgments about the creditworthiness of customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. We also consider customer-specific information, current market conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions to inform adjustments to historical loss data. 
For the year ended December 31, 2020, our assessment considered the impact of COVID-19 and estimates of expected credit and collectibility trends. Volatility in market conditions and evolving credit trends are difficult to predict and may cause variability and volatility that may have a material impact on our allowance for credit losses in future periods. The allowance for credit losses on accounts receivable was $275 million and $789 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively.
Inventory
Inventory consists primarily of finished goods and is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is computed using the first-in, first-out method.
Non-Marketable Investments
We account for non-marketable equity investments through which we exercise significant influence but do not have control over the investee under the equity method. Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are primarily accounted for under the measurement alternative. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments is adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment. Adjustments are determined primarily based on a market approach as of the transaction date and are recorded as a component of other income (expense), net.
Non-marketable debt investments are classified as available-for-sale securities.
Non-marketable investments that do not have stated contractual maturity dates are classified as non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Impairment of Investments
We periodically review our debt and non-marketable equity investments for impairment. 
For debt securities in an unrealized loss position, we determine whether a credit loss exists. The credit loss is estimated by considering available information relevant to the collectibility of the security and information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Any credit loss is recorded as a charge to other income (expense), net, not to exceed the amount of the unrealized loss. Unrealized losses other than the credit loss are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI"). If we have an intent to sell, or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a debt security in an unrealized loss position before recovery of its amortized cost basis, we will write down the security to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as a component of other income (expense), net. 
For non-marketable equity securities we consider whether impairment indicators exist by evaluating the companies' financial and liquidity position, access to capital resources and the time since the last adjustment to fair value, among others. If the assessment indicates that the investment is impaired, we write down the investment to its fair value by recording the corresponding charge as a component of other income (expense), net. Fair value is estimated using the best information available, which may include cash flow projections or other available market data.
Variable Interest Entities
We determine at the inception of each arrangement whether an entity in which we have made an investment or in which we have other variable interests is considered a variable interest entity ("VIE"). We consolidate VIEs when we are the primary beneficiary. We are the primary beneficiary of a VIE when we have the power to direct activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE and have the obligation to absorb the majority of their losses or benefits. If we are not the primary beneficiary in a VIE, we account for the investment or other variable interests in a VIE in accordance with applicable GAAP.
Periodically, we assess whether any changes in our interest or relationship with the entity affect our determination of whether the entity is a VIE and, if so, whether we are the primary beneficiary. 

Alphabet Inc.

Property and Equipment
Property and equipment includes the following categories: land and buildings, information technology assets, construction in progress, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. Land and buildings include land, offices, data centers and related building improvements. Information technology assets include servers and network equipment. We account for property and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation. We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which we regularly evaluate. We depreciate buildings over periods of seven to 25 years. We depreciate information technology assets generally over periods of three to five years (specifically, three years for servers and three to five years for network equipment).
We depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets. Construction in progress is the construction or development of property and equipment that have not yet been placed in service for our intended use. Depreciation for equipment, buildings, and leasehold improvements commences once they are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated.
Leases
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Our lease agreements generally contain lease and non-lease components. Payments under our lease arrangements are primarily fixed. Non-lease components primarily include payments for maintenance and utilities. We combine fixed payments for non-lease components with lease payments and account for them together as a single lease component which increases the amount of our lease assets and liabilities.
Certain lease agreements contain variable payments, which are expensed as incurred and not included in the lease assets and liabilities. These amounts include payments affected by the Consumer Price Index, payments contingent on wind or solar production for power purchase arrangements, and payments for maintenance and utilities.
Lease assets and liabilities are recognized at the present value of the future lease payments at the lease commencement date. The interest rate used to determine the present value of the future lease payments is our incremental borrowing rate, because the interest rate implicit in our leases is not readily determinable. Our incremental borrowing rate is estimated to approximate the interest rate on a collateralized basis with similar terms and payments, and in economic environments where the leased asset is located. Our lease terms include periods under options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. We generally use the base, non-cancelable, lease term when determining the lease assets and liabilities. Lease assets also include any prepaid lease payments and lease incentives.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet beginning January 1, 2019. The current portion of our operating lease liabilities is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and the long term portion is included in operating lease liabilities. Finance lease assets are included in property and equipment, net. Finance lease liabilities are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities or long-term debt.
Operating lease expense (excluding variable lease costs) is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets
We review property and equipment, long-term prepayments and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets or the asset group are expected to generate. If the carrying value of the assets or asset group are not recoverable, the impairment recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its fair value. Impairments were not material for the periods presented.
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the expected benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units periodically, as well as when changes in our operating segments occur. For changes in reporting units, we reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairments were not material for the periods presented.
Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We amortize intangible assets on a straight-line basis with definite lives generally over periods ranging from one to twelve years.

Alphabet Inc.

Income Taxes
We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which we recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based on provisions of enacted tax law. We evaluate the realization of our deferred tax assets based on all available evidence and establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will not be realized.
We recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not that, based on technical merits, the position will be sustained upon examination. The tax benefits of the position recognized in the financial statements are then measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. In addition, we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the income tax provision.
Business Combinations
We include the results of operations of the businesses that we acquire as of the acquisition date. We allocate the purchase price of the acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred.
Foreign Currency
Generally, the functional currency of our international subsidiaries is the local currency. We translate the financial statements of these subsidiaries to U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. We record translation gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) as a component of stockholders’ equity. We reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion of the transaction currency to functional currency as a component of foreign currency exchange gain (loss) in other income (expense), net.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 ("ASU 2016-13") "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments", which requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost. ASU 2016-13 replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss model which requires the use of forward-looking information to calculate credit loss estimates. It also eliminates the concept of other-than-temporary impairment and requires credit losses related to certain available-for-sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction in the amortized cost basis of the securities. These changes result in earlier recognition of credit losses. We adopted ASU 2016-13 using the modified retrospective approach as of January 1, 2020. The cumulative effect upon adoption was not material to our consolidated financial statements. See “Impairment of Investments” and "Accounts Receivable" above as well as Note 3 for the effect on our consolidated financial statements.
Prior Period Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation. See Note 15 for further details.

Alphabet Inc.

Note 2. Revenues 
Revenue Recognition
The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by type (in millions). 

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
Google Search & other | $ | 85,296 | | | $ | 98,115 | | $ | 104,062
YouTube ads | 11,155 | | | 15,149 | | | 19,772 
Google Network Members' properties | 20,010 | | | 21,547 | | | 23,090 
Google advertising | 116,461 | | | 134,811 | | | 146,924
Google other | 14,063 | | | 17,014 | | | 21,711 
Google Services total | 130,524 | | | 151,825 | | | 168,635
Google Cloud | 5,838 | | | 8,918 | | | 13,059 
Other Bets | 595 | | | 659 | | | 657 
Hedging gains (losses) | (138) | | | 455 | | | 176 
Total revenues | $ | 136,819 | | | $ | 161,857 | | $ | 182,527

The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the addresses of our customers (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
United States | $ | 63,269 | | | 46 | % | | $ | 74,843 | | 46 | % | $ | 85,014 | 47 | %
EMEA(1) | 44,739 | | | 33 | | | 50,645 | | | 31 | | 55,370 | | 30 
APAC(1) | 21,341 | | | 15 | | | 26,928 | | | 17 | | 32,550 | | 18 
Other Americas(1) | 7,608 | | | 6 | | | 8,986 | | | 6 | | 9,417 | | 5 
Hedging gains (losses) | (138) | | | 0 | | | 455 | | | 0 | | 176 | | 0 
Total revenues | $ | 136,819 | | | 100 | % | | $ | 161,857 | | 100 | % | $ | 182,527 | 100 | %

(1)    Regions represent Europe, the Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA"); Asia-Pacific ("APAC"); and Canada and Latin America ("Other Americas").
Deferred Revenues and Remaining Performance Obligations
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance, including amounts which are refundable. Deferred revenues primarily relate to Google Cloud and Google other. Our total deferred revenue as of December 31, 2019 was $2.3 billion, of which $1.8 billion was recognized as revenues for the year ending December 31, 2020.
Additionally, we have performance obligations associated with commitments in customer contracts, primarily related to Google Cloud, for future services that have not yet been recognized as revenues, also referred to as remaining performance obligations. Remaining performance obligations include related deferred revenue currently recorded as well as amounts that will be invoiced in future periods, and excludes (i) contracts with an original expected term of one year or less, (ii) cancellable contracts, and (iii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed. As of December 31, 2020, the amount not yet recognized as revenues from these commitments is $29.8 billion. We expect to recognize approximately half over the next 24 months with the remaining thereafter. However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition is largely driven by when the customer utilizes the services and our ability to deliver in accordance with relevant contract terms, which could impact our estimate of the remaining performance obligations and when we expect to recognize such as revenues.

Alphabet Inc.

Note 3. Financial Instruments
Debt Securities
We classify our marketable debt securities, which are accounted for as available-for-sale, within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we use quoted market prices to the extent available or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs to determine fair value.
For certain marketable debt securities, we have elected the fair value option for which changes in fair value are recorded in other income (expense), net. The fair value option was elected for these securities to align with the unrealized gains and losses from related derivative contracts. Unrealized net gains related to debt securities still held where we have elected the fair value option were $87 million as of December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of these debt securities was $2 billion. Balances as of December 31, 2019 were not material.
 The following tables summarize our debt securities, for which we did not elect the fair value option, by significant investment categories as of December 31, 2019 and 2020 (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2019
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | $ | 2,294 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | | $ | 2,294 | | $ | 2,294 | $ | 0 
Government bonds | 55,033 | | | 434 | | | (30) | | 55,437 | | 4,518 | | 50,919 | 
Corporate debt securities | 27,164 | | | 337 | | | (3) | | 27,498 | | 44 | | 27,454 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 19,453 | | | 96 | | | (41) | | 19,508 | | 0 | | 19,508 | 
Total | $ | 103,944 | | | $ | 867 | | $ | (74) | | $ | 104,737 | | $ | 6,856 | $ | 97,881


 | As of December 31, 2020
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | $ | 3,564 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | | $ | 3,564 | | $ | 3,564 | $ | 0 
Government bonds | 55,156 | | | 793 | | | (9) | | 55,940 | | 2,527 | | 53,413 | 
Corporate debt securities | 31,521 | | | 704 | | | (2) | | 32,223 | | 8 | | 32,215 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 16,767 | | | 364 | | | (7) | | 17,124 | | 0 | | 17,124 | 
Total | $ | 107,008 | | | $ | 1,861 | | $ | (18) | | $ | 108,851 | | $ | 6,099 | $ | 102,752

(1)The majority of our time deposits are domestic deposits.
We determine realized gains or losses on the sale or extinguishment of debt securities on a specific identification method. We recognized gross realized gains of $1.3 billion, $292 million, and $899 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively. We recognized gross realized losses of $143 million, $143 million, and $184 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively. We reflect these gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net.
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of our investments in marketable debt securities by stated contractual maturity dates (in millions):

 | As ofDecember 31, 2020
Due in 1 year or less | $ | 19,795 
Due in 1 year through 5 years | 69,228 | 
Due in 5 years through 10 years | 2,739 | 
Due after 10 years | 13,038 | 
Total | $ | 104,800


Alphabet Inc.

The following tables present fair values and gross unrealized losses recorded to AOCI as of December 31, 2019 and 2020, aggregated by investment category and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2019
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds | $ | 6,752 | | | $ | (20) | | $ | 4,590 | | $ | (10) | | $ | 11,342 | $ | (30)
Corporate debt securities | 1,665 | | | (2) | | | 978 | | (1) | | 2,643 | | (3) | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 4,536 | | | (13) | | | 2,835 | | (28) | | 7,371 | | (41) | 
Total | $ | 12,953 | | | $ | (35) | | $ | 8,403 | | $ | (39) | | $ | 21,356 | $ | (74)


 | As of December 31, 2020
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds | $ | 5,516 | | | $ | (9) | | $ | 3 | | $ | 0 | | $ | 5,519 | $ | (9) 
Corporate debt securities | 1,999 | | | (1) | | | 0 | | 0 | | 1,999 | | (1) | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 929 | | | (5) | | | 242 | | (2) | | 1,171 | | (7) | 
Total | $ | 8,444 | | | $ | (15) | | $ | 245 | | $ | (2) | | $ | 8,689 | $ | (17)

During the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2019 we did not recognize any significant other-than-temporary impairment losses. During the year ended December 31, 2020, with the adoption of ASU 2016-13, we did not recognize significant credit losses and the ending allowance for credit losses was immaterial. See Note 7 for further details on other income (expense), net.
Equity Investments
The following discusses our marketable equity securities, non-marketable equity securities, gains and losses on marketable and non-marketable equity securities, as well as our equity securities accounted for under the equity method.
Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks or funds measured at fair value and classified within Level 1 and 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we use quoted prices for identical assets in active markets or inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets.
Our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies without readily determinable market values. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities is adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment (referred to as the measurement alternative). Non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured during the period based on observable transactions are classified within Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because we estimate the value based on valuation methods which may include a combination of the observable transaction price at the transaction date and other unobservable inputs including volatility, rights, and obligations of the securities we hold. The fair value of non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured due to impairment are classified within Level 3.
Gains and losses on marketable and non-marketable equity securities
Gains and losses reflected in other income (expense), net, for our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are summarized below (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Net gain (loss) on equity securities sold during the period | $ | (301) | | | $ | 1,339
Net unrealized gain (loss) on equity securities held as of the end of the period | 2,950 | | | 4,253 | 
Total gain (loss) recognized in other income (expense), net | $ | 2,649 | | | $ | 5,592


Alphabet Inc.

In the table above, net gain (loss) on equity securities sold during the period reflects the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying value of the equity securities at the beginning of the period or the purchase date, if later. 
Cumulative net gains (losses) on equity securities sold during the period, which is summarized in the following table (in millions), represents the total net gains (losses) recognized after the initial purchase date of the equity security. While these net gains may have been reflected in periods prior to the period of sale, we believe they are important supplemental information as they reflect the economic realized net gains on the securities sold during the period. Cumulative net gains are calculated as the difference between the sale price and the initial purchase price for the equity security sold during the period.

 | Equity Securities Sold During the Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Total sale price | $ | 3,134 | | | $ | 4,767
Total initial cost | 858 | | | 2,674 | 
Cumulative net gains (losses) | $ | 2,276 | | | $ | 2,093

Carrying value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities
The carrying value is measured as the total initial cost plus the cumulative net gain (loss). The carrying values for our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are summarized below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2019 
 | Marketable Equity Securities | | Non-Marketable Equity Securities | | Total
Total initial cost | $ | 1,935 | | | $ | 8,297 | | $ | 10,232
Cumulative net gain (loss)(1) | 1,361 | | | 3,056 | | | 4,417
Carrying value | $ | 3,296 | | | $ | 11,353 | | $ | 14,649

(1)Non-marketable equity securities cumulative net gain (loss) is comprised of $3.5 billion unrealized gains and $445 million unrealized losses (including impairment).


 | As of December 31, 2020 
 | Marketable Equity Securities | | Non-Marketable Equity Securities | | Total
Total initial cost | $ | 2,227 | | | $ | 14,616 | | $ | 16,843
Cumulative net gain (loss)(1) | 3,631 | | | 4,277 | | | 7,908
Carrying value(2) | $ | 5,858 | | | $ | 18,893 | | $ | 24,751

(1)Non-marketable equity securities cumulative net gain (loss) is comprised of $6.1 billion unrealized gains and $1.9 billion unrealized losses (including impairment).
(2)The long-term portion of marketable equity securities of $429 million is included in other non-current assets.

Alphabet Inc.

Marketable equity securities
The following table summarizes marketable equity securities measured at fair value by significant investment categories as of December 31, 2019 and 2020 (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2019 | | As of December 31, 2020 
 | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | Marketable EquitySecurities | | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | Marketable EquitySecurities
Level 1: | | | | | | | 
Money market funds | $ | 4,604 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 12,210 | $ | 0 
Marketable equity securities(1)(2) | 0 | | | 3,046 | | | 0 | | 5,470 
 | 4,604 | | | 3,046 | | | 12,210 | | 5,470 
Level 2: | | | | | | | 
Mutual funds | 0 | | | 250 | | | 0 | | 388 
Total | $ | 4,604 | | | $ | 3,296 | | $ | 12,210 | $ | 5,858

(1)    The balance as of December 31, 2019 and 2020 includes investments that were reclassified from non-marketable equity securities following the commencement of public market trading of the issuers or acquisition by public entities. As of December 31, 2020 certain investments are subject to short-term lock-up restrictions. 
(2)    As of December 31, 2020 the long-term portion of marketable equity securities of $429 million is included within other non-current assets.
Non-marketable equity securities
The following is a summary of unrealized gains and losses recorded in other income (expense), net, and included as adjustments to the carrying value of non-marketable equity securities (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 
 | 2019 | | 2020 | | 
Unrealized gains | $ | 2,163 | | | $ | 3,020
Unrealized losses (including impairment) | (372) | | | (1,489) | | 
Total unrealized gain (loss) for non-marketable equity securities | $ | 1,791 | | | $ | 1,531

During the year ended December 31, 2020, included in the $18.9 billion of non-marketable equity securities, $9.7 billion were measured at fair value resulting in a net unrealized gain of $1.5 billion.
Equity securities accounted for under the Equity Method
As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, equity securities accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of approximately $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. Our share of gains and losses including impairment are included as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 7 for further details on other income (expense), net.
Derivative Financial Instruments
We enter into derivative instruments to manage risks relating to our ongoing business operations. The primary risk managed with derivative instruments is foreign exchange risk. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the risk that our cash flows, earnings, and investment in foreign subsidiaries will be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We also enter into derivative instruments to partially offset our exposure to other risks and enhance investment returns.
We recognize derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value and classify the derivatives primarily within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. We present our collar contracts (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) at net fair values where both the purchased and written options are with the same counterparty. For other derivative contracts, we present at gross fair values. We primarily record changes in the fair value in the Consolidated Statements of Income as either other income (expense), net, or revenues, or in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in AOCI, as discussed below.
We enter into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. Further, we enter into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral to be received or pledged when the net fair value of certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. Cash collateral received related to derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included in other current assets with a corresponding liability. Cash and non-cash 

Alphabet Inc.

collateral pledged related to derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included in other current assets.
Cash Flow Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward and option contracts (including collars) as cash flow hedges to hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. These contracts have maturities of 24 months or less.
Cash flow hedge amounts included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are deferred in AOCI and subsequently reclassified to revenue when the hedged item is recognized in earnings. We exclude the change in forward points and time value from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. The initial value of the excluded component is amortized on a straight-line basis over the life of the hedging instrument and recognized in revenues. The difference between fair value changes of the excluded component and the amount amortized to revenues is recorded in AOCI. If the hedged transactions become probable of not occurring, the corresponding amounts in AOCI are reclassified to other income (expense), net in the period of de-designation.
As of December 31, 2020, the net accumulated loss on our foreign currency cash flow hedges before tax effect was $124 million, which is expected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings within the next 12 months.
Fair Value Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward contracts as fair value hedges to hedge foreign currency risks for our investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fair value hedge amounts included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in other income (expense), net, along with the offsetting gains and losses of the related hedged items. We exclude changes in forward points from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognize changes in the excluded component in other income (expense), net.
Net Investment Hedges
We designate foreign currency forward contracts as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to our investment in foreign subsidiaries. Net investment hedge amounts included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in AOCI along with the foreign currency translation adjustment. We exclude changes in forward points from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognize changes in the excluded component in other income (expense), net.
Other Derivatives
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist primarily of foreign currency forward contracts that we use to hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a subsidiary. Gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs, are recognized in other income (expense), net, along with the foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities. 
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to manage risks relating to interest rates, equity and commodity prices, credit exposures and to enhance investment returns. 
The gross notional amounts of our outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2019 | | As of December 31, 2020
Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments: | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | 
Cash flow hedges | $ | 13,207 | | $ | 10,187
Fair value hedges | $ | 455 | | $ | 1,569 
Net investment hedges | $ | 9,318 | | $ | 9,965 
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments: | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | $ | 43,497 | | $ | 39,861
Other contracts | $ | 117 | | $ | 2,399 


Alphabet Inc.

The fair values of our outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | | As of December 31, 2019 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other current and non-current assets | $ | 91 | | | $ | 253 | | $ | 344
Other contracts | Other current and non-current assets | 0 | | | 1 | | | 1 
Total | | $ | 91 | | | $ | 254 | | $ | 345
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 173 | | | $ | 196 | | $ | 369
Other contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | 0 | | | 13 | | | 13
Total | | $ | 173 | | | $ | 209 | | $ | 382


 | | As of December 31, 2020 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other current and non-current assets | $ | 33 | | | $ | 316 | | $ | 349 
Other contracts | Other current and non-current assets | 0 | | | 16 | | | 16 
Total | | $ | 33 | | | $ | 332 | | $ | 365 
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 395 | | | $ | 185 | | $ | 580 
Other contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | 0 | | | 942 | | | 942
Total | | $ | 395 | | | $ | 1,127 | | $ | 1,522


Alphabet Inc.

The gains (losses) on derivatives in cash flow hedging and net investment hedging relationships recognized in other comprehensive income ("OCI") are summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in OCIon Derivatives Before Tax Effect
 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | $ | 332 | | | $ | 38 | | $ | 102 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 26 | | | (14) | | | (37) 
Derivatives in Net Investment Hedging Relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | 136 | | | 131 | | | (851)
Total | $ | 494 | | | $ | 155 | | $ | (786)


Alphabet Inc.

The effect of derivative instruments on income is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income
 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020 
 | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net
Total amounts presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income in which the effects of cash flow and fair value hedges are recorded | $ | 136,819 | | | $ | 7,389 | | $ | 161,857 | | | $ | 5,394 | | | $ | 182,527 | $ | 6,858
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount of gains (losses) reclassified from AOCI to income | $ | (139) | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 367 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 144 | $ | 0 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness recognized in earnings based on an amortization approach | 1 | | | 0 | | | 88 | | 0 | | | 33 | | | 0 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Fair Value Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Hedged items | 0 | | | (96) | | | 0 | | (19) | | | 0 | | | 18 | 
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments | 0 | | | 96 | | | 0 | | 19 | | | 0 | | | (18) | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 37 | | | 0 | | 25 | | | 0 | | | 4 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Net Investment Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 78 | | | 0 | | 243 | | | 0 | | | 151 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | 0 | | | 54 | | | 0 | (413) | | | 0 | | | 718 | 
Other Contracts | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | (906) | 
Total gains (losses) | $ | (138) | | | $ | 169 | | $ | 455 | | | $ | (145) | | | $ | 177 | $ | (33) 

Offsetting of Derivatives
The gross amounts of our derivative instruments subject to master netting arrangements with various counterparties, and cash and non-cash collateral received and pledged under such agreements were as follows (in millions):

Alphabet Inc.

Offsetting of Assets

 | As of December 31, 2019 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 366 | | $ | (21) | | $ | 345 | | $ | (88) | (1) | $ | (234) | $ | 0 | $ | 23
 | As of December 31, 2020 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 397 | | $ | (32) | | $ | 365 | | $ | (295) | (1) | $ | (16) | $ | 0 | $ | 54

(1)    The balances as of December 31, 2019 and 2020 were related to derivative liabilities which are allowed to be net settled against derivative assets in accordance with our master netting agreements.
Offsetting of Liabilities

 | As of December 31, 2019 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 403 | | $ | (21) | | $ | 382 | | $ | (88) | (2) | $ | 0 | $ | 0 | $ | 294
 | As of December 31, 2020 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 1,554 | | $ | (32) | | $ | 1,522 | | $ | (295) | (2) | $ | (1) | $ | (943) | $ | 283

(2)    The balances as of December 31, 2019 and 2020 were related to derivative assets which are allowed to be net settled against derivative liabilities in accordance with our master netting agreements.
Note 4. Leases 
We have entered into operating and finance lease agreements primarily for data centers, land and offices throughout the world with lease periods expiring between 2021 and 2063. 
Components of operating lease expense were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Operating lease cost | $ | 1,820 | | | $ | 2,267
Variable lease cost | 541 | | | 619 | 
Total operating lease cost | $ | 2,361 | | | $ | 2,886


Alphabet Inc.

Supplemental information related to operating leases is as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Cash payments for operating leases | $ | 1,661 | | $ | 2,004
New operating lease assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities | $ | 4,391 | | $ | 2,765

As of December 31, 2020, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease term of 9 years and a weighted average discount rate of 2.6%. Future lease payments under operating leases as of December 31, 2020 were as follows (in millions):

2021 | $ | 2,198 
2022 | 2,170 | 
2023 | 1,995 | 
2024 | 1,738 | 
2025 | 1,389 | 
Thereafter | 5,601 | 
Total future lease payments | 15,091 | 
Less imputed interest | (2,251) | 
Total lease liability balance | $ | 12,840

As of December 31, 2020, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future lease payments of $8.0 billion, excluding purchase options, that are not yet recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between 2021 and 2026 with non-cancelable lease terms of 1 to 25 years.
Note 5. Variable Interest Entities 
Consolidated VIEs
We consolidate VIEs in which we hold a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. The results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are included in our consolidated financial statements.
 For certain consolidated VIEs, their assets are not available to us and their creditors do not have recourse to us. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, assets that can only be used to settle obligations of these VIEs were $3.1 billion and $5.7 billion, respectively, and the liabilities for which creditors only have recourse to the VIEs were $1.2 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively. 
Total noncontrolling interests ("NCI"), including redeemable noncontrolling interests ("RNCI"), in our consolidated subsidiaries increased from $1.2 billion to $3.9 billion from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020, primarily due to external investments in Waymo. NCI and RNCI are included within additional paid-in capital. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was not material for any period presented and is included within other income (expense), net. 
Waymo
Waymo is an autonomous driving technology development company with a mission to make it safe and easy for people and things to get where they're going. In the first half of 2020, Waymo completed an externally led investment round raising in total $3.2 billion, which includes investment from Alphabet. No gain or loss was recognized. The investments related to external parties were accounted for as equity transactions and resulted in recognition of noncontrolling interests.
Unconsolidated VIEs
We have investments in some VIEs in which we are not the primary beneficiary. These VIEs include private companies that are primarily early stage companies and certain renewable energy entities in which activities involve power generation using renewable sources. 
We have determined that the governance structures of these entities do not allow us to direct the activities that would significantly affect their economic performance. Therefore, we are not the primary beneficiary, and the results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are not included in our consolidated financial statements. We account for these investments as non-marketable equity investments or equity method investments. 

Alphabet Inc.

VIEs are generally based on the current carrying value of the investments and any future funding commitments. We have determined that the single source of our exposure to these VIEs is our capital investments in them. The carrying value and maximum exposure of these unconsolidated VIEs were not material as of December 31, 2019 and 2020.
Note 6. Debt 
Short-Term Debt
We have a debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2019 and 2020. 
Our short-term debt balance also includes the current portion of certain long-term debt.
Long-Term Debt
In August 2020, Alphabet issued $10.0 billion of fixed-rate senior unsecured notes in six tranches (collectively, “2020 Notes”): $1.0 billion due in 2025, $1.0 billion due in 2027, $2.25 billion due in 2030, $1.25 billion due in 2040, $2.5 billion due in 2050 and $2.0 billion due in 2060. The 2020 Notes had a weighted average duration of 21.5 years and weighted average coupon rate of 1.57%. Of the total issuance, $5.75 billion was designated as Sustainability Bonds, the net proceeds of which are used to fund environmentally and socially responsible projects in the following eight areas: energy efficiency, clean energy, green buildings, clean transportation, circular economy and design, affordable housing, commitment to racial equity, and support for small businesses and COVID-19 crisis response. The remaining net proceeds are used for general corporate purposes.
 The total outstanding debt is summarized below (in millions, except percentages):

 | Maturity | Coupon Rate | Effective Interest Rate | As of December 31, 2019 | | As ofDecember 31, 2020
Debt | | | | | | 
2011-2016 Notes Issuances | 2021 - 2026 | 2.00% - 3.63% | 2.23% - 3.73% | $ | 4,000 | | | $ | 4,000 
2020 Notes Issuance | 2025 - 2060 | 0.45% - 2.25% | 0.57% - 2.33% | 0 | | | 10,000 | 
Future finance lease payments, net(1) | | | | 711 | | | 1,201 | 
Total debt | | | | 4,711 | | | 15,201 | 
Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs | | | | (42) | | | (169) | 
Less: Current portion of Notes(2) | | | | 0 | | | (999) | 
Less: Current portion future finance lease payments, net(1)(2) | | | | (115) | | | (101) | 
Total long-term debt | | | | $ | 4,554 | | | $ | 13,932

(1)Net of imputed interest.
(2)Total current portion of long-term debt is included within other accrued expenses and current liabilities. See Note 7.
The notes in the table above are comprised of fixed-rate senior unsecured obligations and generally rank equally with each other. We may redeem the notes at any time in whole or in part at specified redemption prices. The effective interest rates are based on proceeds received with interest payable semi-annually.
The total estimated fair value of the outstanding notes, including the current portion, was approximately $4.1 billion and $14.0 billion as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020, respectively. The fair value was determined based on observable market prices of identical instruments in less active markets and is categorized accordingly as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.

Alphabet Inc.

As of December 31, 2020, the aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt, including finance lease liabilities, for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (in millions):

2021 | $ | 1,104 
2022 | 86 
2023 | 86 
2024 | 1,087 
2025 | 1,088 
Thereafter | 11,868
Total | $ | 15,319

Credit Facility
As of December 31, 2020, we have $4.0 billion of revolving credit facilities which expire in July 2023. The interest rate for the credit facilities is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. No amounts were outstanding under the credit facilities as of December 31, 2019 and 2020.
Note 7. Supplemental Financial Statement Information 
Property and Equipment, Net
Property and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2019 | | As ofDecember 31, 2020
Land and buildings | $ | 39,865 | | | $ | 49,732
Information technology assets | 36,840 | | | 45,906 | 
Construction in progress | 21,036 | | | 23,111 | 
Leasehold improvements | 6,310 | | | 7,516 | 
Furniture and fixtures | 156 | | | 197 | 
Property and equipment, gross | 104,207 | | | 126,462 | 
Less: accumulated depreciation | (30,561) | | | (41,713) | 
Property and equipment, net | $ | 73,646 | | | $ | 84,749

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2019 | | As ofDecember 31, 2020
European Commission fines(1) | $ | 9,405 | | | $ | 10,409
Accrued customer liabilities | 2,245 | | | 3,118 | 
Accrued purchases of property and equipment | 2,411 | | | 2,197 | 
Current operating lease liabilities | 1,199 | | | 1,694 | 
Other accrued expenses and current liabilities | 7,807 | | | 11,213 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | $ | 23,067 | | | $ | 28,631

(1)    Includes the effects of foreign exchange and interest. See Note 10 for further details.

Alphabet Inc.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The components of AOCI, net of tax, were as follows (in millions):

 | Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Investments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges | | Total
Balance as of December 31, 2017 | $ | (1,103) | | | $ | 233 | | $ | (122) | $ | (992)
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | (98) | | | 0 | | (98) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (781) | | | 88 | | | 264 | | (429) 
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | 26 | | 26 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (911) | | | 98 | | (813) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (781) | | | (823) | | | 388 | | (1,216)
Balance as of December 31, 2018 | (1,884) | | | (688) | | | 266 | | (2,306)
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 0 | | | (30) | | (30) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (119) | | | 1,611 | | | 36 | | 1,528 
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | (14) | | (14) 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (111) | | | (299) | | (410) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (119) | | | 1,500 | | | (277) | | 1,104 
Balance as of December 31, 2019 | (2,003) | | | 812 | | | (41) | | (1,232)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | 1,139 | | | 1,313 | | | 79 | | 2,531 
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | (37) | | (37) 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (513) | | | (116) | | (629) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 1,139 | | | 800 | | | (74) | | 1,865 
Balance as of December 31, 2020 | $ | (864) | | | $ | 1,612 | | $ | (115) | $ | 633 

The effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI were as follows (in millions):

 | | Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI to the Consolidated Statements of Income | 
 | | Year Ended December 31, | 
AOCI Components | Location | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020 | 
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments | | | | | 
 | Other income (expense), net | $ | 1,190 | | | $ | 149 | | $ | 650
 | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | (279) | | | (38) | | | (137) | 
 | Net of tax | 911 | | | 111 | | | 513 | 
Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Revenue | (139) | | | 367 | | | 144 | 
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 6 | | | 6 | | | 6 | 
 | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | 35 | | | (74) | | | (34) | 
 | Net of tax | (98) | | | 299 | | | 116 | 
Total amount reclassified, net of tax | | $ | 813 | | | $ | 410 | | $ | 629


Alphabet Inc.

Other Income (Expense), Net 
The components of other income (expense), net, were as follows (in millions): 

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
Interest income | $ | 1,878 | | | $ | 2,427 | | $ | 1,865
Interest expense(1) | (114) | | | (100) | | | (135)
Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net (2) | (80) | | | 103 | | | (344)
Gain (loss) on debt securities, net(3) | 1,190 | | | 149 | | | 725 
Gain (loss) on equity securities, net | 5,460 | | | 2,649 | | | 5,592
Performance fees | (1,203) | | | (326) | | | (609)
Income (loss) and impairment from equity method investments, net | (120) | | | 390 | | | 401 
Other(4) | 378 | | | 102 | | | (637)
Other income (expense), net | $ | 7,389 | | | $ | 5,394 | | $ | 6,858

(1)    Interest expense is net of interest capitalized of $92 million, $167 million, and $218 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively.
(2)    Our foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net, is primarily related to the forward points for our foreign currency hedging contracts and foreign exchange transaction gains and losses from the conversion of the transaction currency to the functional currency, offset by the foreign currency hedging contracts' losses and gains.
(3)    During the year ended December 31, 2018, the terms of a non-marketable debt security were modified resulting in an unrealized $1.3 billion gain.
(4)    During the year ended December 31, 2020, we entered into derivatives that hedged the changes in fair value of certain marketable equity securities, which resulted in a $902 million loss. The offsetting recognized gains on the marketable equity securities are reflected in Gain (loss) on equity securities, net.
Note 8. Acquisitions 
2020 Acquisitions 
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $744 million, net of cash acquired. In aggregate, $248 million was attributed to intangible assets, $446 million to goodwill and $50 million to net assets acquired. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings and expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. 
Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate.
For all intangible assets acquired and purchased during the year ended December 31, 2020, patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of 4.1 years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of 4.7 years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of 4.6 years.
Acquisition of Fitbit
In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion.

Alphabet Inc.

Note 9. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
Goodwill
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020 were as follows (in millions):

 | Google | | Google Services | | Google Cloud | | Other Bets | Total
Balance as of December 31, 2018 | $ | 17,521 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | $ | 367 | $ | 17,888
Acquisitions | 2,353 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 475 | 2,828 | 
Transfers | 9 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | (9) | 0 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | 38 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | (130) | (92) | 
Balance as of December 31, 2019 | 19,921 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 703 | 20,624 | 
Acquisitions | 204 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | 204 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | 46 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | (4) | 42 | 
Allocation in the fourth quarter of 2020(1) | (20,171) | | | 18,408 | | | 1,763 | | 0 | 0 | 
Acquisitions | 0 | | | 53 | | | 189 | | 0 | 242 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | 0 | | | 56 | | | 5 | | 2 | 63 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2020 | $ | 0 | | | $ | 18,517 | | $ | 1,957 | $ | 701 | $ | 21,175

(1)Represents reallocation of goodwill as a result of our change in segments in the fourth quarter of 2020. See Note 15 for further details
Other Intangible Assets
Information regarding purchased intangible assets were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2019
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingAmount
Patents and developed technology | $ | 4,972 | | | $ | 3,570 | | $ | 1,402
Customer relationships | 254 | | | 30 | | | 224
Trade names and other | 703 | | | 350 | | | 353
Total | $ | 5,929 | | | $ | 3,950 | | $ | 1,979


 | As of December 31, 2020
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingValue
Patents and developed technology | $ | 4,639 | | | $ | 3,649 | | $ | 990 
Customer relationships | 266 | | | 49 | | | 217
Trade names and other | 699 | | | 461 | | | 238
Total | $ | 5,604 | | | $ | 4,159 | | $ | 1,445

Patents and developed technology, customer relationships, and trade names and other have weighted-average remaining useful lives of 1.6 years, 4.9 years, and 2.1 years, respectively. 
Amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets was $865 million, $795 million, and $774 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively.

Alphabet Inc.

As of December 31, 2020, expected amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets for each of the next five years and thereafter is as follows (in millions):

2021 | $ | 719 
2022 | 375 | 
2023 | 104 | 
2024 | 78 | 
2025 | 53 | 
Thereafter | 116 | 
 | $ | 1,445

Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies 
Purchase Obligations
As of December 31, 2020, we had $10.7 billion of other non-cancelable contractual obligations, primarily related to data center operations and build-outs, digital media content licensing, information technology assets and purchases of inventory.
Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, to facilitate transactions in our services and products, we indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network Members, customers of Google Cloud offerings, and lessors with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.
It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, we have a limited history of prior indemnification claims and the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 
As of December 31, 2020, we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible. 
Legal Matters
Antitrust Investigations
On November 30, 2010, the EC's Directorate General for Competition opened an investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against us. 
On June 27, 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017) fine. On September 11, 2017, we appealed the EC decision and on September 27, 2017, we implemented product changes to bring shopping ads into compliance with the EC's decision. We recognized a charge of $2.7 billion for the fine in the second quarter of 2017.
On July 18, 2018, the EC announced its decision that certain provisions in Google’s Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018) fine and directed the termination of the conduct at issue. On October 9, 2018, we appealed the EC decision. On October 29, 2018, we implemented changes to certain of our Android distribution practices. We recognized a charge of $5.1 billion for the fine in the second quarter of 2018.
On March 20, 2019, the EC announced its decision that certain contractual provisions in agreements that Google had with AdSense for Search partners infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a fine of €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019) and directed actions related to AdSense for Search partners' agreements, which we implemented prior to the decision. On June 4, 2019, we appealed the EC decision. We recognized a charge of $1.7 billion for the fine in the first quarter of 2019.

Alphabet Inc.

While each EC decision is under appeal, we included the fines in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines.
From time to time we are subject to formal and informal inquiries and investigations on competition matters by regulatory authorities in the United States, Europe, and other jurisdictions. For example, in August 2019, we began receiving civil investigative demands from the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") requesting information and documents relating to our prior antitrust investigations and certain aspects of our business. The DOJ and a number of state Attorneys General filed a lawsuit on October 20, 2020 alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws relating to Search and Search advertising. Separately, on December 16, 2020, a number of state Attorneys General filed an antitrust complaint against Google in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws as well as state deceptive trade laws relating to its advertising technology. We believe these complaints are without merit and will defend ourselves vigorously. The DOJ and state Attorneys General continue their investigations into certain aspects of our business. We continue to cooperate with federal and state regulators in the United States, and other regulators around the world.
Patent and Intellectual Property Claims
We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe others' intellectual property rights. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services. As a result, we may have to change our business practices, and develop non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. In addition, the U.S. International Trade Commission ("ITC") has increasingly become an important forum to litigate intellectual property disputes because an ultimate loss in an ITC action can result in a prohibition on importing infringing products into the U.S. Because the U.S. is an important market, a prohibition on importation could have an adverse effect on us, including preventing us from importing many important products into the U.S. or necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features of our products.
Furthermore, many of our agreements with our customers and partners require us to indemnify them against certain intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. In addition, our customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business.
In 2010, Oracle America, Inc. ("Oracle") brought a copyright lawsuit against Google in the Northern District of California, alleging that Google's Android operating system infringes Oracle's copyrights related to certain Java application programming interfaces. After trial, final judgment was entered by the district court in favor of Google on June 8, 2016, and the court decided post-trial motions in favor of Google. Oracle appealed and on March 27, 2018, the appeals court reversed and remanded the case for a trial on damages. On May 29, 2018, we filed a petition for a rehearing at the Federal Circuit, and on August 28, 2018, the Federal Circuit denied the petition. On January 24, 2019, we filed a petition to the Supreme Court of the United States to review this case. On April 29, 2019, the Supreme Court requested the views of the Solicitor General regarding our petition. On September 27, 2019, the Solicitor General recommended denying our petition, and we provided our response on October 16, 2019. On November 15, 2019, the Supreme Court granted our petition and made a decision to review the case. The Supreme Court heard oral arguments in our case on October 7, 2020. If the Supreme Court does not rule in our favor, the case will be remanded to the district court for further determination of the remaining issues in the case, including damages, if any. We believe this lawsuit is without merit and are defending ourselves vigorously. Given the nature of this case, we are unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, if any, arising from this matter.
Other 
We are also regularly subject to claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. Such claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings could result in substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing auditing and monitoring obligations, changes to our products and services, alterations to our business models and operations, and collateral related civil litigation or other adverse consequences, all of which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
Certain of these outstanding matters include speculative, substantial or indeterminate monetary amounts. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we 

Alphabet Inc.

disclose the reasonably possible loss. We evaluate developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both likelihood of there being and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters.
With respect to our outstanding matters, based on our current knowledge, we believe that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss will not, either individually or in aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, the outcome of such matters is inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties.
We expense legal fees in the period in which they are incurred.
Non-Income Taxes
We are under audit by various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to non-income tax matters. The subject matter of non-income tax audits primarily arises from disputes on the tax treatment and tax rate applied to the sale of our products and services in these jurisdictions and the tax treatment of certain employee benefits. We accrue non-income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and judicial process in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome may be materially different from our expectations.
For information regarding income tax contingencies, see Note 14.
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity 
Convertible Preferred Stock
Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, no shares were issued or outstanding.
Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock
Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock.
Share Repurchases
In July 2020, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $28.0 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. 
During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020, we repurchased and subsequently retired 15.3 million and 21.5 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $18.4 billion and $31.1 billion, respectively.
Note 12. Net Income Per Share
We compute net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares and the effect of potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist of restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. The computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A common stock assumes the conversion of Class B common stock, while the diluted net income per share of Class B common stock does not assume the conversion of those shares.
The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, of the holders of our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Furthermore, there are a number of 

Alphabet Inc.

safeguards built into our certificate of incorporation, as well as Delaware law, which preclude our Board of Directors from declaring or paying unequal per share dividends on our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments to our certificate of incorporation which would have the effect of adversely altering the rights, powers, or preferences of a given class of stock must be approved by the class of stock adversely affected by the proposed amendment. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that before any such amendment may be put to a stockholder vote, it must be approved by the unanimous consent of our Board of Directors. As a result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based on the contractual participation rights of the Class A and Class B common shares and Class C capital stock as if the earnings for the year had been distributed. As the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated on a proportionate basis. 
In the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, the net income per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock because the holders of each class are entitled to equal per share dividends or distributions in liquidation in accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Alphabet Inc.
The following tables set forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock (in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 13,200 | | | $ | 2,072 | | $ | 15,464
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 298,548 | | | 46,864 | | | 349,728
Basic net income per share | $ | 44.22 | | | $ | 44.22 | | $ | 44.22 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 13,200 | | | $ | 2,072 | | $ | 15,464
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 2,072 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (146) | | | (24) | | | 146 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 15,126 | | | $ | 2,048 | | $ | 15,610
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 298,548 | | | 46,864 | | | 349,728
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 46,864 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 689 | | | 0 | | | 7,456 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 346,101 | | | 46,864 | | | 357,184
Diluted net income per share | $ | 43.70 | | | $ | 43.70 | | $ | 43.70 


Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 14,846 | | | $ | 2,307 | | $ | 17,190
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 299,402 | | | 46,527 | | | 346,667
Basic net income per share | $ | 49.59 | | | $ | 49.59 | | $ | 49.59 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 14,846 | | | $ | 2,307 | | $ | 17,190
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 2,307 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (126) | | | (20) | | | 126 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 17,027 | | | $ | 2,287 | | $ | 17,316
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 299,402 | | | 46,527 | | | 346,667
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 46,527 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 413 | | | 0 | | | 5,547 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 346,342 | | | 46,527 | | | 352,214
Diluted net income per share | $ | 49.16 | | | $ | 49.16 | | $ | 49.16 


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2020 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 17,733 | | | $ | 2,732 | | $ | 19,804
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 299,815 | | | 46,182 | | | 334,819
Basic net income per share | $ | 59.15 | | | $ | 59.15 | | $ | 59.15 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 17,733 | | | $ | 2,732 | | $ | 19,804
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 2,732 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (180) | | | (25) | | | 180 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 20,285 | | | $ | 2,707 | | $ | 19,984
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 299,815 | | | 46,182 | | | 334,819
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 46,182 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 87 | | | 0 | | | 6,125 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 346,084 | | | 46,182 | | | 340,944
Diluted net income per share | $ | 58.61 | | | $ | 58.61 | | $ | 58.61 


Alphabet Inc.

Note 13. Compensation Plans 
Stock Plans
Our stock plans include the Alphabet 2012 Stock Plan and Other Bet stock-based plans. Under our stock plans, RSUs and other types of awards may be granted. An RSU award is an agreement to issue shares of our publicly traded stock at the time the award vests. RSUs granted to participants under the Alphabet 2012 Stock Plan generally vest over four years contingent upon employment or service with us on the vesting date.
As of December 31, 2020, there were 38,777,813 shares of stock reserved for future issuance under our Alphabet 2012 Stock Plan.
Stock-Based Compensation
For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, total stock-based compensation expense was $10.0 billion, $11.7 billion and $13.4 billion, including amounts associated with awards we expect to settle in Alphabet stock of $9.4 billion, $10.8 billion, and $12.8 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, we recognized tax benefits on total stock-based compensation expense, which are reflected in the provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income, of $1.5 billion, $1.8 billion, and $2.7 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, tax benefit realized related to awards vested or exercised during the period was $2.1 billion, $2.2 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively. These amounts do not include the indirect effects of stock-based awards, which primarily relate to the research and development tax credit.
Stock-Based Award Activities
The following table summarizes the activities for our unvested Alphabet RSUs for the year ended December 31, 2020:

 | Unvested Restricted Stock Units
 | Number of Shares | Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Value
Unvested as of December 31, 2019 | 19,394,236 | | $ | 1,055.22
Granted | 12,647,562 | | 1,407.97 | 
Vested | (11,643,670) | | 1,089.31 | 
Forfeited/canceled | (1,109,335) | | 1,160.01 | 
Unvested as of December 31, 2020 | 19,288,793 | | $ | 1,262.13

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019, was $1,095.89 and $1,092.36, respectively. Total fair value of RSUs, as of their respective vesting dates, during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020 were $14.1 billion, $15.2 billion, and $17.8 billion, respectively.
As of December 31, 2020, there was $22.8 billion of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested employee RSUs. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. 
401(k) Plans
We have two 401(k) Savings Plans that qualify as deferred salary arrangements under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under these 401(k) Plans, matching contributions are based upon the amount of the employees’ contributions subject to certain limitations. We recognized expense of approximately $691 million, $724 million, and $855 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively.
Note 14. Income Taxes 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes consists of the following (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
Domestic operations | $ | 15,779 | | | $ | 16,426 | | $ | 37,576
Foreign operations | 19,134 | | | 23,199 | | | 10,506
Total | $ | 34,913 | | | $ | 39,625 | | $ | 48,082


Alphabet Inc.

The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
Current: | | | | | 
Federal and state | $ | 2,153 | | | $ | 2,424 | | $ | 4,789
Foreign | 1,251 | | | 2,713 | | | 1,687
Total | 3,404 | | | 5,137 | | | 6,476
Deferred: | | | | | 
Federal and state | 907 | | | 286 | | | 1,552
Foreign | (134) | | | (141) | | | (215)
Total | 773 | | | 145 | | | 1,337
Provision for income taxes | $ | 4,177 | | | $ | 5,282 | | $ | 7,813

The reconciliation of federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate is as follows:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
U.S. federal statutory tax rate | 21.0 | % | | 21.0 | % | 21.0 | %
Foreign income taxed at different rates | (4.4) | | | (4.9) | | (0.3) | 
Foreign-derived intangible income deduction | (0.5) | | | (0.7) | | (3.0) | 
Stock-based compensation expense | (2.2) | | | (0.7) | | (1.7) | 
Federal research credit | (2.4) | | | (2.5) | | (2.3) | 
Impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act | (1.3) | | | (0.6) | | 0.0 | 
European Commission fines | 3.1 | | | 1.0 | | 0.0 | 
Deferred tax asset valuation allowance | (2.0) | | | 0.0 | | 1.4 | 
State and local income taxes | (0.4) | | | 1.1 | | 1.1 | 
Other adjustments | 1.1 | | | (0.4) | | 0.0 | 
Effective tax rate | 12.0 | % | | 13.3 | % | 16.2 | %

Our effective tax rate for 2018 and 2019 was affected significantly by earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions with statutory tax rates lower than the federal statutory tax rate because substantially all of the income from foreign operations was earned by an Irish subsidiary. As of December 31, 2019, we have simplified our corporate legal entity structure and now license intellectual property from the U.S. that was previously licensed from Bermuda resulting in an increase in the portion of our income earned in the U.S.
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court, in an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, invalidated the portion of the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section 482 requiring related-party participants in a cost sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. The U.S. Tax Court issued the final decision on December 28, 2015. As a result of that decision, we recorded a tax benefit related to the anticipated reimbursement of cost share payment for previously shared stock-based compensation costs.
On June 7, 2019, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit overturned the 2015 Tax Court decision in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, and upheld the portion of the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section 482 requiring related-party participants in a cost sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. As a result of the Ninth Circuit court decision, our cumulative net tax benefit of $418 million related to previously shared stock-based compensation costs was reversed in the year ended December 31, 2019.
In 2020, there was an increase in valuation allowance for net deferred tax assets that are not likely to be realized relating to certain of our Other Bets.

Alphabet Inc.

Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2019 | | 2020
Deferred tax assets: | | | 
Stock-based compensation expense | $ | 421 | | | $ | 518 
Accrued employee benefits | 463 | | | 580 | 
Accruals and reserves not currently deductible | 1,047 | | | 1,049 | 
Tax credits | 3,264 | | | 3,723 | 
Net operating losses | 771 | | | 1,085 | 
Operating leases | 1,876 | | | 2,620 | 
Intangible assets | 164 | | | 1,525 | 
Other | 226 | | | 463 | 
Total deferred tax assets | 8,232 | | | 11,563 | 
Valuation allowance | (3,502) | | | (4,823) | 
Total deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance | 4,730 | | | 6,740 | 
Deferred tax liabilities: | | | 
Property and equipment, net | (1,798) | | | (3,382) | 
Renewable energy investments | (466) | | | (415) | 
Foreign Earnings | (373) | | | (383) | 
Net investment gains | (1,074) | | | (1,901) | 
Operating leases | (1,619) | | | (2,354) | 
Other | (380) | | | (782) | 
Total deferred tax liabilities | (5,710) | | | (9,217) | 
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) | $ | (980) | | | $ | (2,477)

As of December 31, 2020, our federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $3.1 billion, $3.1 billion, and $1.4 billion respectively. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2023, foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2024 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2028. It is more likely than not that certain net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized; therefore, we have recorded a valuation allowance against them. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various annual limitations under the tax laws of the different jurisdictions.
As of December 31, 2020, our California research and development credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $3.7 billion that can be carried over indefinitely. We believe the state tax credit is not likely to be realized.
As of December 31, 2020, we maintained a valuation allowance with respect to California deferred tax assets, certain federal net operating losses, certain state tax credits, net deferred tax assets relating to certain of our Other Bets, and certain foreign net operating losses that we believe are not likely to be realized. We continue to reassess the remaining valuation allowance quarterly and if future evidence allows for a partial or full release of the valuation allowance, a tax benefit will be recorded accordingly. 

Alphabet Inc.

Uncertain Tax Positions
The following table summarizes the activity related to our gross unrecognized tax benefits (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
Beginning gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 4,696 | | | $ | 4,652 | | $ | 3,377
Increases related to prior year tax positions | 321 | | | 938 | | | 372 
Decreases related to prior year tax positions | (623) | | | (143) | | | (557)
Decreases related to settlement with tax authorities | (191) | | | (2,886) | | | (45) 
Increases related to current year tax positions | 449 | | | 816 | | | 690 
Ending gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 4,652 | | | $ | 3,377 | | $ | 3,837

The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $4.7 billion, $3.4 billion, and $3.8 billion as of December 31, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively, of which, $2.9 billion, $2.3 billion, and $2.6 billion, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate, respectively. The decrease in gross unrecognized tax benefits in 2019 was primarily as a result of the resolution of multi-year audits.
As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, we accrued $130 million and $222 million in interest and penalties in provision for income taxes, respectively.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions, our two major tax jurisdictions are the U.S. federal and Ireland. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS is currently examining our 2016 through 2018 tax returns. We have also received tax assessments in multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. We continue to defend any and all such claims as presented.
The tax years 2011 through 2019 remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits in various other jurisdictions that are not material to our financial statements.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the effect, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
We believe that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management's expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Although the timing of resolution, settlement, and closure of audits is not certain, we do not believe it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months.
Note 15. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas 
Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2020, we report our segment results as Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets:
•Google Services includes products and services such as ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Google Services generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products such as YouTube Premium and YouTube TV.
•Google Cloud includes Google’s infrastructure and data analytics platforms, collaboration tools, and other services for enterprise customers. Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from fees received for Google Cloud Platform services and Google Workspace (formerly known as G Suite) collaboration tools.
•Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sale of internet services as well as licensing and R&D services. 
Revenues and certain costs, such as costs associated with content and traffic acquisition, certain engineering, and hardware costs and other operating expenses, are directly attributable to our segments. Due to the integrated nature of Alphabet, other costs and expenses, such as technical infrastructure and office facilities, are managed 

Alphabet Inc.

centrally at a consolidated level. The associated costs, including depreciation and impairment, are allocated to operating segments as a service cost generally based on usage or headcount.
Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such as finance and legal, including fines and settlements, as well as costs associated with certain shared research and development activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related to revenue are included in corporate costs. 
Our Chief Operating Decision Maker does not evaluate operating segments using asset information.
Information about segments during the periods presented were as follows (in millions). For comparative purposes, amounts in prior periods have been recast:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | | 2020
Revenues: | | | | | 
Google Services | $ | 130,524 | | | $ | 151,825 | | $ | 168,635
Google Cloud | 5,838 | | | 8,918 | | | 13,059 
Other Bets | 595 | | | 659 | | | 657 
Hedging gains (losses) | (138) | | | 455 | | | 176 
Total revenues | $ | 136,819 | | | $ | 161,857 | | $ | 182,527
Operating income (loss): | | | | | 
Google Services | $ | 43,137 | | | $ | 48,999 | | $ | 54,606 
Google Cloud | (4,348) | | | (4,645) | | | (5,607)
Other Bets | (3,358) | | | (4,824) | | | (4,476)
Corporate costs, unallocated(1) | (7,907) | | | (5,299) | | | (3,299)
Total income from operations | $ | 27,524 | | | $ | 34,231 | | $ | 41,224 

(1)    Corporate costs, unallocated includes a fine of $5.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 and a fine and legal settlement totaling $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019.
For revenues by geography, see Note 2.
The following table presents certain of our long-lived assets by geographic area, which includes property and equipment, net and operating lease assets (in millions).

 | As of December 31, 2019 | | As ofDecember 31, 2020
Long-lived assets: | | | 
United States | $ | 63,102 | | | $ | 69,315
International | 21,485 | | | 27,645 | 
Total long-lived assets | $ | 84,587 | | | $ | 96,960


Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2020, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed at a reasonable assurance level and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We rely extensively on information systems to manage our business and summarize and report operating results. In 2019, we began a multi-year implementation of a new global ERP system, which will replace much of our existing core financial systems. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain our financial records, enhance the flow of financial information, improve data management and provide timely information to our management team. The implementation is expected to occur in phases over the next several years. The initial phase, which included changes to our general ledger and consolidated financial reporting systems, was completed during the third quarter of 2020. There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2020 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. However, as the phased implementation of the new ERP system continues, we will change our processes and procedures, which in turn, could result in changes to our internal control over financial reporting. As such changes occur, we will evaluate quarterly whether such changes materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.
As a result of COVID-19, our global workforce continued to operate primarily in a work from home environment for the quarter ended December 31, 2020. While pre-existing controls were not specifically designed to operate in our current work from home operating environment, we believe that our internal controls over financial reporting continue to be effective. We have continued to re-evaluate and refine our financial reporting process to provide reasonable assurance that we could report our financial results accurately and timely.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2020. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with our Audit and Compliance Committee. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs.
ITEM 9B.OTHER INFORMATION
None.

Alphabet Inc.

PART III
ITEM 10.DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement for 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 (2021 Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the 2021 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 11.EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the 2021 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the 2021 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 13.CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Director Independence” in the 2021 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 14.PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in the 2021 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Alphabet Inc.

PART IV
ITEM 15.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
We have filed the following documents as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
1. Consolidated Financial Statements

Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 51
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 

2. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
The table below details the activity of the allowance for credit losses and sales credits for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020 (in millions):

 | Balance atBeginning ofYear | | Additions | Usage | | Balance atEnd of Year
Year ended December 31, 2018 | $ | 674 | | $ | 1,115 | | $ | (1,060) | $ | 729 
Year ended December 31, 2019 | $ | 729 | | $ | 1,481 | | $ | (1,457) | $ | 753 
Year ended December 31, 2020 | $ | 753 | | $ | 2,013 | | $ | (1,422) | $ | 1,344


Note: | Additions to the allowance for credit losses are charged to expense. Additions to the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues.

All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or the required information is otherwise included.
3. Exhibits

ExhibitNumber | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | Date 
2.01 | | Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 2, 2015, by and among Google Inc., the Registrant and Maple Technologies Inc. | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
3.01 | | Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated October 2, 2015 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
3.02 | | Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, dated October 21, 2020 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 27, 2020
4.01 | | Specimen Class A Common Stock certificate | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.02 | | Specimen Class C Capital Stock certificate | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.03 | | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.04 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Larry Page and certain of his affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date 
4.05 | | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Sergey Brin and certain of his affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.06 | | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Eric E. Schmidt and certain of its affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.07 | | | Class C Undertaking, dated October 2, 2015, executed by the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.08 | | | Indenture, dated February 12, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209510) | February 12, 2016
4.09 | | | Registrant Registration Rights Agreement dated December 14, 2015 | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209518) | February 12, 2016
4.10 | | | First Supplemental Indenture, dated April 27, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | April 27, 2016 
4.11 | | | Form of the Registrant’s 3.625% Notes due 2021 (included in Exhibit 4.10) | | 
4.12 | | | Form of the Registrant’s 3.375% Notes due 2024 (included in Exhibit 4.10) | | 
4.13 | | | Form of the Registrant’s 1.998% Note due 2026 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 9, 2016 
4.14 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 0.450% notes due 2025 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.15 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 0.800% notes due 2027 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.16 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 1.100% notes due 2030 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.17 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 1.900% notes due 2040 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.18 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 2.050% notes due 2050 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.19 | | | Form of Global Note representing the Registrant’s 2.250% notes due 2060 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 5, 2020 
4.20 | | | Description of Registrant’s Securities | Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-37580) | February 4, 2020 
10.01 | | u | Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between the Registrant, its affiliates and its directors and officers | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.02 | | u | Compensation Plan Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.03 | | u | Director Arrangements Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.04 | | u | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.05 | | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan, as amended | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-50726) | June 7, 2011 
10.05.1 | | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Form of Google Stock Option Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | March 30, 2005 


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date 
10.05.2 | | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Form of Google Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | March 30, 2005 
10.05.3 | | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Amendment to Stock Option Agreements | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-142243) | April 20, 2007 
10.06 | | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | June 5, 2020 
10.06.1 | | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | February 4, 2020 
10.06.2 | | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan - Performance Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | February 4, 2020 
10.07 | | u | Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan | Registration Statement on Form S-8(File No. 333-181661) | May 24, 2012 
14.01 | | | Code of Conduct of the Registrant as amended on September 21, 2017 | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 001-37580) | February 6, 2018 
21.01 | | * | Subsidiaries of the Registrant | | 
23.01 | | * | Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | | 
24.01 | | * | Power of Attorney (incorporated by reference to the signature page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) | | 
31.01 | | * | Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
31.02 | | * | Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
32.01 | | ‡ | Certifications of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
99.01 | | | Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | September 5, 2020
99.02 | | | Notice of Pendency and Proposed Settlement of Derivative Actions | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | October 23, 2020 
101.INS | | * | Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document. | | 
101.SCH | | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document | | 
101.CAL | | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document | | 
101.DEF | | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document | | 
101.LAB | | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document | | 


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein
 | Form | | Date 
101.PRE | | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document | 
104 | | | Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101) | 

_________________

u | Indicates management compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement.
* | Filed herewith. 
‡ | Furnished herewith. 

ITEM 16.FORM 10-K SUMMARY
None.

Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 1. | BUSINESS

Overview
As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history — inspiring us to do things like tackling deep computer science problems, such as our investments in artificial intelligence (AI) and quantum computing.
Alphabet is a collection of businesses — the largest of which is Google. We report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Our Other Bets include earlier stage technologies that are further afield from our core Google business. We take a long term view and manage the portfolio of Other Bets with the discipline and rigor needed to deliver long-term returns. Each of our businesses are designed to prosper through strong leaders and independence.
Access and technology for everyone
The Internet is one of the world’s most powerful equalizers, capable of propelling new ideas and people forward. Today, our mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful is as relevant as it was when we were founded in 1998. Since then, we’ve evolved from a company that helps people find answers to a company that helps you get things done. We’re focused on building an even more helpful Google for everyone. We aspire to give everyone the tools they need to increase their knowledge, health, happiness, and success.
Across Google, we're focused on continually innovating in areas where technology can have an impact on people’s lives. Our work in AI is helping to produce earlier and more precise flood warnings. We’re also working hard to make sure that our products are accessible to the more than one billion individuals around the world with a disability. For example, Android 10 has automatic Live Captions for videos, podcasts and voicemails to make it easier to consume information on the phone.
Our Other Bets are also pursuing initiatives with similar goals. For instance, as a part of our efforts in the Metro Phoenix area, Waymo is working toward our goal of making transportation safer and easier for everyone while Verily is developing tools and platforms to improve health outcomes.
Moonshots
Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. We continue to look toward the future and continue to invest for the long-term. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in because they are the key to our long-term success.
The power of machine learning
Across the company, machine learning and AI are increasingly driving many of our latest innovations. Within Google, our investments in machine learning over a decade have enabled us to build products that are smarter and more helpful. For example, our investments in AI are enabling doctors to detect cancer earlier. Machine learning powers the Google Assistant and many of our newer technologies.
Google
Serving our users
We have always been a company committed to building products that have the potential to improve the lives of millions of people. Our product innovations have made our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google's core products and platforms, such as Android, Chrome, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube each have over one billion monthly active users. As the majority of Alphabet’s big bets continue to reside within Google, an important benefit of the shift to Alphabet has been the tremendous focus that we’re able to have on Google’s many extraordinary opportunities.
Our products have come a long way since the company was founded more than two decades ago. Instead of just showing ten blue links in our search results, we are increasingly able to provide direct answers — even if you're speaking your question using Voice Search — which makes it quicker, easier and more natural to find what you're looking for. With Google Lens, you can use your phone’s camera to identify an unfamiliar landmark or find a trailer 

Alphabet Inc.

from a movie poster. Over time, we have also added other services that let you access information quickly and easily — like Google Maps, which helps you navigate to a store while showing you current traffic conditions, or Google Photos, which helps you store and organize your photos.
This drive to make information more accessible and helpful has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content, on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. And with the migration to mobile, people are consuming more digital content by watching more videos, playing more games, listening to more music, reading more books, and using more apps than ever before. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to find great digital content.
Fueling all of these great digital experiences are powerful platforms and hardware. That’s why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, Chrome operating system, and Daydream virtual reality platform, as well as growing our family of great hardware devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful, make your life easier, and get better over time, by combining the best of Google's AI, software, and hardware. This is reflected in our latest generation of hardware products like Pixel 4 phones and the Google Nest Hub smart display. Creating beautiful products that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long run.
Key to building helpful products for users is our commitment to keeping their data safe online. As the Internet evolves, we continue to invest in our industry-leading security technologies and privacy tools, such as the addition of auto-delete controls to enable users to automatically delete activity after 3 or 18 months and incognito mode in YouTube and Maps.
Google was a company built in the cloud. We continue to invest in infrastructure, security, data management, analytics and AI. We see significant opportunity in helping businesses enhance these strengths with features like data migration, modern development environments and machine learning tools to provide enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and G Suite. Google Cloud Platform enables developers to build, test, and deploy applications on Google’s highly scalable and reliable infrastructure. Our G Suite productivity tools — which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, and more — are designed with real-time collaboration and machine intelligence to help people work smarter. Because more and more of today’s great digital experiences are being built in the cloud, our Google Cloud products help businesses of all sizes take advantage of the latest technology advances to operate more efficiently.
How we make money
The goal of our advertising products is to deliver relevant ads at just the right time and to give people useful commercial information, regardless of the device they’re using. We also provide advertisers with tools that help them better attribute and measure their advertising campaigns. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses, and we offer a wide range of products across devices and formats. We generate revenues primarily by delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising.

• | Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Most of our performance advertisers pay us when a user engages in their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. Our ads tools allow performance advertisers to create simple text-based ads that appear on Google properties and the properties of Google Network Members. In addition, Google Network Members use our platforms to display relevant ads on their properties, generating revenues when site visitors view or click on the ads. We continue to invest in our advertising programs and make significant upgrades.


• | Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns.

We have built a world-class ad technology platform for advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. We also seek to improve the measurability of advertising so advertisers know when their campaigns are effective.
We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, ranging from filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions of bad ads from our systems every year to closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blacklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content.

Alphabet Inc.

We continue to look to the future and are making long-term investments that will grow revenues beyond advertising, including Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware, and YouTube. We are also investing in research efforts in AI and quantum computing to foster innovation across our businesses and create new opportunities.
Other Bets
Throughout Alphabet, we are also using technology to try and solve big problems across many industries. Alphabet’s investment in our portfolio of Other Bets include emerging businesses at various stages of development, ranging from those in the research and development phase to those that are in the beginning stages of commercialization, and our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the medium to long term. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. Revenues are primarily generated from internet and TV services, as well as licensing and R&D services.
Other Bets operate as independent companies and some of them have their own boards with independent members and outside investors. We are investing in our portfolio of Other Bets and being very deliberate about the focus, scale, and pace of investments.
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from:

• | General purpose search engines and information services, such as Baidu, Microsoft's Bing, Naver, Seznam, Verizon's Yahoo, and Yandex.


• | Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Amazon and eBay (e-commerce), Booking's Kayak (travel queries), Microsoft's LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google.


• | Social networks, such as Facebook, Snapchat, and Twitter. Some users increasingly rely on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines.


• | Other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline.


• | Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Amazon, AppNexus, Criteo, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers that use Google Ads, our primary auction-based advertising platform.


• | Providers of digital video services, such as Amazon, Apple, AT&T, Disney, Facebook, Hulu, Netflix and TikTok.

In businesses that are further afield from our advertising business, we compete with companies that have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users. We face competition from:

• | Other digital content and application platform providers, such as Amazon and Apple.


• | Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer hardware products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms.


• | Providers of enterprise cloud services, including Alibaba, Amazon, and Microsoft.


• | Digital assistant providers, such as Amazon and Apple.

Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to deliver and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace across our businesses. Specifically, for advertising, competing successfully depends on attracting and retaining:

• | Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely on the basis of the relevance of our advertising, as well as the general usefulness, security and availability of our products and services.


• | Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels.


• | Content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.

Intellectual Property

Alphabet Inc.

We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties.
Culture and Employees
We take great pride in our culture. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex technical challenges. Transparency and open dialogue are central to how we work, and we aim to ensure that company news reaches our employees first through internal channels.
Despite our rapid growth, we still cherish our roots as a startup and wherever possible empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their role or function within the company. We strive to hire great employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as those of our global users. We work to provide an environment where these talented people can have fulfilling careers addressing some of the biggest challenges in technology and society.
Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue investing in hiring talented employees and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees. As of December 31, 2019, we had 118,899 full-time employees. Although we have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our U.S. employees are not represented by a labor union. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff.
Ongoing Commitment to Sustainability
We strive to build sustainability into everything we do from designing and operating efficient data centers, advancing carbon-free energy, creating sustainable workplaces, building better devices and services, empowering users with technology, and enabling a responsible supply chain. Google has been carbon neutral since 2007 and we are the largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy in the world. In 2018, for the second consecutive year, we matched 100% of our electricity consumption with renewable energy purchases, as reported in our 2019 Environmental Report. 
Some other 2019 highlights and achievements include:

• | We made our largest corporate purchase of renewable energy: 18 new energy deals totaling 1,600 megawatts, which is anticipated to spur the construction of more than $2 billion in new energy infrastructure.


• | 100% of Nest products launched in 2019 include recycled plastic content and we launched carbon neutral shipping for Google’s direct customers who buy a product on Google Shopping or purchase Made by Google hardware.


• | The Environmental Insights Explorer is enabling municipalities — which represent more than 70% of global greenhouse gas emissions according to the 2016 United Nations Habitat World Cities Report — to estimate emissions and develop climate action plans. In 2019, we expanded this tool to more than 100 cities worldwide.

We believe that climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time. In 2017, we developed a climate resilience strategy, which included conducting a climate scenario analysis. We have been on CDP’s (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change A list for five consecutive years. We believe our CDP report reflects the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
More information on Google's approach to sustainability can be found in our annual sustainability reports. The content of our sustainability reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC.
Seasonality
Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality.
Available Information
Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments to these reports, are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC.

Alphabet Inc.

We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance and other items of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. We also share Google news and product updates on Google's Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, which may be of interest or material to our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.

ITEM 1A. | RISK FACTORS

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Risks Specific to our Company
We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending by advertisers, a loss of partners, or new and existing technologies that block ads online and/or affect our ability to customize ads could harm our business. 
We generated over 83% of total revenues from the display of ads online in 2019. Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content providers can terminate their contracts with us at any time. These partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. Changes to our advertising policies and data privacy practices, as well as changes to other companies’ advertising policies or practices may affect the advertising that we are able to provide, which could harm our business. In addition, technologies have been developed that make customized ads more difficult or that block the display of ads altogether and some providers of online services have integrated technologies that could potentially impair the availability and functionality of third-party digital advertising. Failing to provide superior value or deliver advertisements effectively and competitively could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions can also have a material negative effect on the demand for advertising and cause our advertisers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.
We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, which could harm our business and operating results. 
Our business environment is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our businesses face changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of rival products and services. To compete successfully, we must accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies in a timely manner. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services. We must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our technology and new and existing products and services.
We have many competitors in different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Some competitors have longer operating histories in various sectors. They can use their experience and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in research and development and in talent, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete aggressively for users, advertisers, customers, and content providers. Our competitors may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the need for products and services before us. For example, we are investing significantly in subscription-based products and services such as YouTube, which face intense competition from large experienced companies with well established relationships with users.
Our operating results may also suffer if our products and services are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. As technologies continue to develop, our competitors may be able to offer experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If our competitors 

Alphabet Inc.

are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers, our operating results could be harmed.
Our ongoing investment in new businesses, products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our current operations and harm our financial condition and operating results. 
We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The investments that we are making across Google and Other Bets reflect our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. Our investments in Google and Other Bets span a wide range of industries beyond online advertising. Such investments ultimately may not be commercially viable or may not result in an adequate return of capital and, in pursuing new strategies, we may incur unanticipated liabilities. These endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion of management resources and, with respect to Other Bets, the use of alternative investment, governance, or compensation structures that may fail to adequately align incentives across the company or otherwise accomplish their objectives.
Within Google, we continue to invest heavily in hardware, including our smartphones and home devices, which is a highly competitive market with frequent introduction of new products and services, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price and performance characteristics, and price and feature sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. There can be no assurance we will be able to provide hardware that competes effectively.
We are also devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and G Suite. We are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services and hire talent, particularly to support and scale the Cloud salesforce. At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services. Pricing and delivery models are competitive and evolving, and we may not attain sufficient scale and profitability to achieve our business objectives.
Within Other Bets, we are investing significantly in the areas of health, life sciences, and transportation, among others. These investment areas face intense competition from large experienced and well-funded competitors and our offerings may not be able to compete effectively or to operate at sufficient levels of profitability.
In addition, new and evolving products and services, including those that use artificial intelligence and machine learning, raise ethical, technological, legal, regulatory, and other challenges, which may negatively affect our brands and demand for our products and services. Because all of these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future. 
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including increasing competition and the continued expansion of our business into a variety of new fields. Changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix and an increasing competition for advertising may also affect our advertising revenue growth rate. We may also experience a decline in our revenue growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels, if there is a decrease in the rate of adoption of our products, services, and technologies, or due to deceleration or decline in demand for devices used to access our services, among other factors.
In addition to a decline in our revenue growth rate, we may also experience downward pressure on our operating margin resulting from a variety of factors, such as the continued expansion of our business into new fields, including products and services such as hardware, Google Cloud, Google Play, gaming, and subscription products, as well as significant investments in Other Bets, all of which may have margins lower than those we generate from advertising. We may also experience downward pressure on our operating margins from increasing competition and increased costs for many aspects of our business, including within advertising where changes such as device mix, property mix, and partner agreements can affect margin. The margin we earn on revenues generated from our Google Network Members could also decrease in the future if we pay a larger percentage of advertising fees to them. We may also pay increased TAC to our distribution partners as well as increased content acquisition costs to content providers. We may also face an increase in infrastructure costs, supporting businesses such as Search, Google Cloud, and YouTube. Additionally, our spend to promote new products and services or distribute certain products and services or increased investment in our innovation efforts across Google and our Other Bets businesses may affect our operating margins. 
Due to these factors and the evolving nature of our business, our historical revenue growth rate and historical operating margin may not be indicative of our future performance.

Alphabet Inc.

Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand as well as affect our ability to compete. 
Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services, and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable.
We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of such trade secrets and other sensitive information could be compromised, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word “Google” could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word “search.” Some courts have ruled that "Google" is a protectable trademark, but it is possible that other courts, particularly those outside of the United States, may reach a different determination. If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word “Google” to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand.
Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results.
Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. 
Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our brands may be negatively affected by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy and security issues and developments, and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to appropriately respond to the sharing of misinformation or objectionable content on our services or objectionable practices by advertisers, or to otherwise adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence in our brands. Our brands may also be negatively affected by the use of our products or services to disseminate information that is deemed to be false or misleading.
Furthermore, failure to maintain and enhance equity in our brands may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our success will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a valuable role in a range of settings.
We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that, if not properly managed, could harm our financial condition, operating results, and prospects. 
We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management, which could affect our ability to supply both our products and our internet-based services.
We rely on other companies to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products, to design certain of our components and parts, and to participate in the distribution of our products and services. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage these companies with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them.
We may experience supply shortages and price increases driven by raw material availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. We may experience shortages or other supply chain disruptions that could negatively affect our operations. In addition, some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and products are available only from a single source or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms in the event of a supply chain disruption. In addition, a significant hardware supply interruption could delay critical data center upgrades or expansions.

Alphabet Inc.

We may enter into long term contracts for materials and products that commit us to significant terms and conditions. We may be liable for materials and products that are not consumed due to market acceptance, technological change, obsolescences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because many of our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and negatively affect our financial results. Furthermore, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect our supply.
Our products and services may have quality issues resulting from design, manufacturing, or operations. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products and services does not meet expectations or our products or services are defective, it could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
We require our suppliers and business partners to comply with laws and, where applicable, our company policies, such as the Google Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. Violations of law or unethical business practices could result in supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, harm to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. Their failure to procure necessary license rights to intellectual property, could affect our ability to sell our products or services and expose us to litigation or financial claims.
Interruption, interference with, or failure of our information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, complications with the design or implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system could harm our business and operations. 
The availability of our products and services and fulfillment of our customer contracts depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage, interference, or interruption from terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, ransomware attacks, computer denial of service attacks, phishing schemes, or other attempts to harm or access our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and, in some cases, to potential disruptions resulting from problems experienced by facility operators. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities.
The occurrence of a natural disaster, closure of a facility, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and may contain errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in or failure of our services or systems.
In addition, we rely extensively on information systems and technology to manage our business and summarize operating results. We are in the process of a multi-year implementation of a new ERP system, which will replace much of our existing core financial systems. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain our financial records, enhance the flow of financial information, improve data management, and provide timely information to our management team. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP system without experiencing delays, increased costs, and other difficulties. Failure to successfully design and implement the new ERP system as planned could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the ERP system as planned or the ERP system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be negatively affected.
Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, our financial condition, and operating results.
Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues in 2019. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following:

• | Restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.


Alphabet Inc.


• | Import and export requirements, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers, and customs classifications that may prevent us from offering products or providing services to a particular market, or that could limit our ability to source assemblies and finished products from a particular market, and may increase our operating costs.


• | Longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud.


• | Evolving foreign events, including Brexit, the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union (EU). Brexit may adversely affect our revenues and could subject us to new regulatory costs and challenges (including the transfer of personal data between the EU and the United Kingdom), in addition to other adverse effects that we are unable to effectively anticipate.


• | Anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting certain payments to government officials, violations of which could result in civil and criminal penalties.


• | Uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent.


• | Different employee/employer relationships, existence of works councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions.

Because we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could harm our financial condition and operating results.
Risks Related to our Industry
People access the Internet through a variety of platforms and devices that continue to evolve with the advancement of technology and user preferences. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our products and services developed for these new interfaces, our business could be harmed. 
People access the Internet through a growing variety of devices such as desktop computers, mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-activated speakers, wearables, automobiles, and television-streaming devices. Our products and services may be less popular on these new interfaces. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not be available on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via voice-activated speakers, apps, social media or other platforms, which could harm our business. It is hard to predict the challenges we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to creating and supporting products and services across multiple platforms and devices. Failing to attract and retain a substantial number of new device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users, or failing to develop products and technologies that work well on new devices and platforms, could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results and ability to capture future business opportunities.
Data privacy and security concerns relating to our technology and our practices could damage our reputation, cause us to incur significant liability, and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. Software bugs or defects, security breaches, and attacks on our systems could result in the improper disclosure and use of user data and interference with our users and customers’ ability to use our products and services, harming our business operations and reputation. 
Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other data-privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our policies and practices may change over time as expectations regarding privacy and data change.
Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, and bugs, theft, misuse, defects, vulnerabilities in our products and services, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, improper use and disclosure of such information, litigation, and other potential liability. Systems and control failures, security breaches, failure to comply with our privacy policies, and/or inadvertent disclosure of user data could result in government and legal exposure, seriously harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business, and impair our ability to attract and retain users or customers. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to maintain security protections that shield against bugs, theft, misuse, or security vulnerabilities or breaches.
We experience cyber attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems on a regular basis. We may experience future security issues, whether due to employee error or malfeasance or system errors or 

Alphabet Inc.

vulnerabilities in our or other parties’ systems, which could result in significant legal and financial exposure. Government inquiries and enforcement actions, litigation, and adverse press coverage could harm our business. We may be unable to anticipate or detect attacks or vulnerabilities or implement adequate preventative measures. Attacks and security issues could also compromise trade secrets and other sensitive information, harming our business.
While we have dedicated significant resources to privacy and security incident response capabilities, including dedicated worldwide incident response teams, our response process may not be adequate, may fail to accurately assess the severity of an incident, may not respond quickly enough, or may fail to sufficiently remediate an incident. As a result, we may suffer significant legal, reputational, or financial exposure, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.
Our ongoing investments in safety, security, and content review will likely continue to identify abuse of our platforms and misuse of user data.
In addition to our efforts to mitigate cyber attacks, we are making significant investments in safety, security, and content review efforts to combat misuse of our services and unauthorized access to user data by third parties, including investigations and review of platform applications that could access the information of users of our services. As a result of these efforts, we could discover incidents of unnecessary access to or misuse of user data or other undesirable activity by third parties. We may not discover all such incidents or activity, whether as a result of our data limitations, including our lack of visibility over our encrypted services, the scale of activity on our platform, or other factors, and we may be notified of such incidents or activity via third parties. Such incidents and activities may include the use of user data or our systems in a manner inconsistent with our terms, contracts or policies, the existence of false or undesirable user accounts, election interference, improper ad purchases, activities that threaten people’s safety on- or offline, or instances of spamming, scraping, or spreading disinformation. We may also be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our policies or otherwise remediate any such incidents. Any of the foregoing developments may negatively affect user trust and engagement, harm our reputation and brands, require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business, and adversely affect our business and financial results. Any such developments may also subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result in monetary penalties and damages, divert management’s time and attention, and lead to enhanced regulatory oversight.
Problematic content, including low-quality user-generated content, web spam, content farms, and other violations of our guidelines could affect the quality of our services, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. 
We, like others in the industry, face violations of our content guidelines, including sophisticated attempts by bad actors to manipulate our hosting and advertising systems to fraudulently generate revenues, or to otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine user interest or intent. While we invest significantly in efforts to promote high-quality and relevant results and to detect and prevent low-quality content and invalid traffic, we may be unable to adequately detect and prevent such abuses.
Many websites violate or attempt to violate our guidelines, including by seeking to inappropriately rank higher in search results than our search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. Such efforts (known as “web spam”) may affect the quality of content on our platforms and lead them to display false, misleading or undesirable content.
Although English-language web spam in our search results has been reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek inappropriate ways to improve their rankings. We continuously combat web spam in our search results, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We also continue to invest in and deploy proprietary technology to detect and prevent web spam from abusing our platforms.
We also face other challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes focused on low-quality websites.
If we fail to detect and prevent an increase in problematic content, it could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information or reduce use of our platforms, harming our financial condition or operating results. It may also subject us to litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result in monetary penalties and damages, divert management’s time and attention, and lead to enhanced regulatory oversight.

Alphabet Inc.

Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. 
Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms of discrimination by internet access providers; however, substantial uncertainty exists in the United States and elsewhere regarding such protections. For example, in 2018 the United States Federal Communications Commission repealed net neutrality rules, which could lead internet access providers to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. Such interference could result in a loss of existing users, customers and advertisers, goodwill, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users, customers and advertisers, thereby harming our business.
Risks Related to Laws and Regulations 
We are subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny as well as changes in public policies governing a wide range of topics that may negatively affect our business. 
We and other companies in the technology industry are experiencing increased regulatory scrutiny. For instance, various regulatory agencies, including competition, consumer protection, and privacy authorities, are reviewing aspects of our products and services. We continue to cooperate with these investigations. Prior, existing, and new investigations have in the past and may in the future result in substantial fines and penalties, changes to our products and services, alterations to our business operations, and civil litigation, all of which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Changes in international and local social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics may increase our cost of doing business, limit our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products or services, and cause us to change our business practices. Further, our investment in a variety of new fields, including the health industry and payment services, also raises a number of new regulatory issues. These factors could harm our business and operating results in material ways.
A variety of new and existing laws and/or interpretations could harm our business.
We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations or applications of existing laws and regulations in a manner inconsistent with our practices) may make our products and services less useful, limit our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products and services, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. These laws and regulations are evolving and involve matters central to our business, including, among others:

• | Competition laws and regulations around the world.


• | Privacy laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 that came into effect in January of 2020, which gives new data privacy rights to California residents, and SB-327 in California, which regulates the security of data in connection with internet connected devices.


• | Data protection laws passed by many states within the U.S. and by certain countries regarding notification to data subjects and/or regulators when there is a security breach of personal data.


• | Copyright laws, such as the EU Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market (EUCD) of April 17, 2019, which increases the liability of content-sharing services with respect to content uploaded by their users. It has also created a new property right in news publications that will limit the ability of some online services to interact with or present such content. Each EU Member State must implement the EUCD by June 7, 2021. In addition, there are new constraining licensing regimes that limit our ability to operate with respect to copyright protected works.


• | Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country.


Alphabet Inc.


• | Various U.S. and international laws that govern the distribution of certain materials to children and regulate the ability of online services to collect information from minors.


• | Various laws with regard to content removal and disclosure obligations, such as the Network Enforcement Act in Germany, which may affect our businesses and operations and may subject us to significant fines if such laws are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices or when we may not proactively discover such content due to the scale of third-party content and the limitations of existing technologies. Other countries, including Singapore, Australia, and the United Kingdom, have implemented or are considering similar legislation imposing penalties for failure to remove certain types of content.

In addition, the applicability and scope of these laws, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain and could harm our business. For example: 

• | We rely on statutory safe harbors, as set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the United States and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, against copyright liability for various linking, caching, and hosting activities. Any legislation or court rulings affecting these safe harbors may adversely affect us.


• | Court decisions such as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) on May 13, 2014 on the ‘right to be forgotten,’ which allows individuals to demand that Google remove search results about them in certain instances, may limit the content we can show to our users and impose significant operational burdens.


• | Court decisions that require Google to remove links not just in the jurisdiction of the issuing court, but for all versions of the search engine worldwide, including in locations where the content at issue is lawful, may limit the content we can show to our users and impose significant operational burdens. The Supreme Court of Canada issued such a decision against Google in June 2017, and others could treat its decision as persuasive. With respect to the ‘right to be forgotten,’ a follow-up case of the CJEU on September 24, 2019 ruled that a search engine operator is not required to remove links from all versions of the search engine worldwide, but the court also noted in some cases, removal of links from all versions of the search engine available from the EU (including non-EU specific versions) may be required.

The introduction of new businesses, products, services, and technologies, our activities in certain jurisdictions, or other actions we take may subject us to additional laws and regulations. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future. Any failure on our part to comply with laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.
We are subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
We are subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Due to our manufacturing and sale of an expanded suite of products, including hardware as well as Google Cloud offerings, we may also be subject to a variety of claims including product warranty, product liability, and consumer protection claims related to product defects, among other litigation. We may also be subject to claims involving health and safety, hazardous materials usage, other environmental impacts, or service disruptions or failures. 
Any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse effect on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, negative publicity and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. The resolution of one or more such proceedings has resulted in, and may in the future result in, additional substantial fines, penalties, injunctions, and other sanctions that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.
We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. 
Our products and services let users exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities. We also place advertisements displayed on other companies’ websites, and we offer third-party products, services, and/or content. The law relating to the liability of online service providers for others’ activities on their services is still somewhat unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally. Claims have been brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright and trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, torts, fraud, or other legal theories based on the nature and content of information available on or via our services.

Alphabet Inc.

We may be subject to claims by virtue of our involvement in hosting, transmitting, marketing, branding, or providing access to content created by third parties. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner.
Privacy and data protection regulations are complex and rapidly evolving areas. Adverse interpretations of these laws could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
Authorities around the world have adopted and are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection and limits on encryption of user data. Adverse legal rulings, legislation, or regulation could result in fines and orders requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to provide services, harming our business operations. Complying with these evolving laws could result in substantial costs and harm the quality of our products and services, negatively affecting our business.
Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding transfers of personal data from Europe to the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services that we offer to EU users or customers, or the monitoring of their behavior in the EU. The GDPR creates a range of new compliance obligations.
Ensuring compliance with the GDPR is an ongoing commitment that involves substantial costs, and despite our efforts, governmental authorities or others have asserted and may continue to assert that our business practices fail to comply with its requirements. If our operations are found to violate GDPR requirements, we may incur substantial fines, have to change our business practices, and face reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, serious breaches of the GDPR can result in administrative fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide revenues. Fines of up to 2% of annual worldwide revenues can be levied for other specified violations.
The EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks allow U.S. companies that self-certify to the U.S. Department of Commerce and publicly commit to comply with specified requirements to import personal data from the EU and Switzerland. However, these frameworks face a number of legal challenges and their validity remains subject to legal, regulatory, and political developments in both Europe and the U.S. The potential invalidation of data transfer mechanisms could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to process and transfer personal data outside of the EEA. 
These developments create some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or harm the operations of our products and services in ways that harm our business.
We face, and may continue to face intellectual property and other claims that could be costly to defend, result in significant damage awards or other costs (including indemnification awards), and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. 
We, like other internet, technology and media companies, hold large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent-holding companies may frequently seek to generate income from patents they have obtained by bringing claims against us. As we have grown, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies.
We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Other parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease-and-desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell our products or services in the U.S. or elsewhere if our products or services or those of our customers or suppliers are found to infringe the intellectual property subject to the claims. Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services. They may also cause us to change our business practices and require development of non-infringing products, services, or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business.
Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to defend against certain intellectual property infringement claims and in some cases indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could result in increased costs for defending such claims or significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers arising from intellectual property 

Alphabet Inc.

infringement claims. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims.
Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. To the extent such claims are successful, they may harm our business, including our product and service offerings, financial condition, or operating results.
Risks Related to Ownership of our Stock 
We cannot guarantee that any share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that any share repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our stock and could diminish our cash reserves. 
In January 2018, January 2019, and July 2019, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $8.6 billion, $12.5 billion, and $25.0 billion of its Class C capital stock, respectively. Share repurchases pursuant to the January 2018 and January 2019 authorizations were completed in 2019. As of December 31, 2019, $20.8 billion remains available for repurchase. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date and does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. Our share repurchase program could affect the price of our stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock.
The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters.
Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A common stock has one vote per share, and our Class C capital stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2019, Larry Page and Sergey Brin beneficially owned approximately 84.3% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which represented approximately 51.2% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Through their stock ownership, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C capital stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could continue Larry and Sergey’s current relative voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. This concentrated control limits or severely restricts other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial, which could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock.
Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. 
Provisions in Alphabet’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:

• | Our certificate of incorporation provides for a tri-class capital stock structure. As a result of this structure, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, or other change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. As noted above, the issuance of the Class C capital stock could have the effect of continuing the influence of Larry and Sergey.


• | Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors.


• | Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting.


• | Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates.


• | Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company.


Alphabet Inc.


• | Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.

As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.
General Risks 
Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations.
Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly, year-to-date, and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may differ significantly from our historical rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed in this section in addition to the following factors may affect our operating results:

• | Our ability to continue to attract and retain users and customers to our products and services.


• | Our ability to attract user and/or customer adoption of, and generate significant revenues from, new products, services, and technologies in which we have invested considerable time and resources.


• | Our ability to monetize traffic on Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties across various devices.


• | Revenue fluctuations caused by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix.


• | The amount of revenues and expenses generated and incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and our ability to manage the resulting risk through our foreign exchange risk management program.


• | The amount and timing of operating costs and expenses and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure.


• | Our focus on long-term goals over short-term results.


• | The results of our acquisitions, divestitures, and our investments in risky projects, including new businesses, products, services, and technologies.


• | Our ability to keep our products and services operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions.


• | The seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising spending, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality. Our rapid growth has tended to mask the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results to fluctuate.


• | Geopolitical events, including trade disputes.


• | Changes in global business or macroeconomic conditions.

Because our businesses are changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results.
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and divestitures are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and operating results. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions, which could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Some of the areas where we face risks include:

• | Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic transactions.


• | Failure to successfully integrate and further develop the acquired business or technology.


Alphabet Inc.


• | Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company.


• | Integration of the acquired company’s accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions.


• | Transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms.


• | Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of a transaction.


• | In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.


• | Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire.


• | Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, data privacy and security issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities.


• | Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties.

Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.
Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which may harm our financial condition or operating results.
If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy.
Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. For instance, Sundar Pichai is critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries and plays an important role in the development of our technology. He also plays a key role in maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could seriously harm our business.
We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively. 
Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees.
In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, particularly in light of our holding company structure, adverse changes to our corporate culture could harm our business operations.
In preparing our financial statements, we incorporate valuation methodologies that are subjective in nature and valuations may fluctuate over time.
We measure certain of our non-marketable equity and debt investments, certain other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled in the stock of certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. The determination of fair value involves use of appropriate valuation methods and certain unobservable inputs, require management judgment and estimation, and may change over time. 

Alphabet Inc.

As it relates to our non-marketable investments, the market values can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, performance and financial results of the underlying companies, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates, including changes that may result from the implementation of new benchmark rates that replace LIBOR, the effect of new or changing regulations, the stock market in general, or other factors.
Since January 2018, we adjust the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments to fair value for observable transactions of identical or similar investments of the same issuer or for impairments. All gains and losses on non-marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized in other income (expense), which increases the volatility of our other income (expense).
As a result of these factors, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents, as well as our marketable and non-marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.
We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. 
Our future income taxes could be negatively affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles (including changes in the interpretation of existing laws), as well as certain discrete items.
In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions, including in Europe, on various tax-related assertions, such as transfer-pricing adjustments or permanent-establishment claims. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition and could require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. It may also subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, resulting in the diversion of management’s time and attention. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.
Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws, or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant changes in ways that impair our financial results. In particular, France, Italy, and other countries have enacted or are considering digital services taxes, which could lead to inconsistent and potentially overlapping international tax regimes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development recently released a proposal relating to its initiative for modernizing international tax rules, with the goal of having different countries enact legislation to implement a modernized and aligned international tax framework, but there can be no guarantee that this will occur. 
The trading price for our Class A common stock and non-voting Class C capital stock may continue to be volatile. 
The trading price of our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. For example, from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019, the closing price of our Class A common stock ranged from $1,025.47 per share to $1,362.47 per share, and the closing price of our Class C capital stock ranged from $1,016.06 to $1,361.17 per share.
In addition to the factors discussed in this report, the trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others:

• | Quarterly variations in our operating results or those of our competitors.


• | Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments.


• | Recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates.


• | Announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the risk of which is enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance on earnings.


• | Announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations.


Alphabet Inc.


• | Commentary by industry and market professionals about our products, strategies, and other matters affecting our business and results, regardless of its accuracy.


• | The volume of shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock available for public sale.


• | Sales of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock by us or by our stockholders (including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other employees).


• | Short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock.


• | The perceived values of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock relative to one another.


• | Any share repurchase program.

In addition, the stock market in general, which can be affected by various factors, including overall economic and political conditions, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies.
These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.

ITEM 1B. | UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

Not applicable.

ITEM 2. | PROPERTIES

Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We also own and lease office and building space in the surrounding areas near our headquarters, which we believe is sufficient to accommodate anticipated future growth. In addition, we own and lease office/building space and research and development sites around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We own and operate data centers in the U.S., Europe, South America, and Asia. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.

ITEM 3. | LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see Note 10 “Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Matters” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4. | MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

Alphabet Inc.

PART II

ITEM 5. | MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

As of October 2, 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since August 19, 2004 and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. Our Class B common stock is neither listed nor traded. Our Class C capital stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since April 3, 2014.
Holders of Record
As of December 31, 2019, there were approximately 2,455 and 2,030 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock, respectively. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of December 31, 2019, there were approximately 66 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock.
Dividend Policy
We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace and form of capital return to stockholders.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class C capital stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2019: 

Period | Total Number of Shares Purchased (in thousands) (1) | Average Price Paid per Share (2) | | Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(in thousands) (1) | Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (in millions)
October 1 - 31 | 1,970 | | $ | 1,229.02 | | 1,970 | $ | 24,470
November 1 - 30 | 1,626 | | $ | 1,304.00 | | 1,626 | $ | 22,350
December 1 - 31 | 1,164 | | $ | 1,337.16 | | 1,164 | $ | 20,793
Total | 4,760 | | | | 4,760 | 


(1) | In January and July 2019, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $12.5 billion and $25.0 billion of its Class C capital stock, respectively. Share repurchases pursuant to the January 2019 authorization were completed during the fourth quarter of 2019. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. Please refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases.


(2) | Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases.


Alphabet Inc.

Stock Performance Graphs
The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class A's cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2019. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS A COMMON STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2014 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2020 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.

Alphabet Inc.

The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class C's cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on capital stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our Class C capital stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2019. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS C CAPITAL STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2014 in stock or in index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2020 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.

Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 6. | SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period.

 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2015 | | 2016 | 2017 | | 2018 | 2019
 | (in millions, except per share amounts)
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: 
Revenues | $ | 74,989 | | $ | 90,272 | | $ | 110,855 | $ | 136,819 | $ | 161,857
Income from operations | $ | 19,360 | | $ | 23,737 | | $ | 26,178 | $ | 27,524 | $ | 34,231 
Net income | $ | 16,348 | | $ | 19,478 | | $ | 12,662 | $ | 30,736 | $ | 34,343 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 23.11 | | $ | 28.32 | | $ | 18.27 | $ | 44.22 | $ | 49.59 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 24.63 | | $ | 28.32 | | $ | 18.27 | $ | 44.22 | $ | 49.59 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 22.84 | | $ | 27.85 | | $ | 18.00 | $ | 43.70 | $ | 49.16 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 24.34 | | $ | 27.85 | | $ | 18.00 | $ | 43.70 | $ | 49.16 


 | As of December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | 2017 | | 2018 | 2019
 | (in millions) 
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: 
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | $ | 73,066 | | $ | 86,333 | | $ | 101,871 | $ | 109,140 | $ | 119,675
Total assets | $ | 147,461 | | $ | 167,497 | | $ | 197,295 | $ | 232,792 | $ | 275,909
Total long-term liabilities | $ | 7,820 | | $ | 11,705 | | $ | 20,610 | $ | 20,544 | $ | 29,246 
Total stockholders’ equity | $ | 120,331 | | $ | 139,036 | | $ | 152,502 | $ | 177,628 | $ | 201,442


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 7. | MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
We have omitted discussion of 2017 results where it would be redundant to the discussion previously included in Part II, Item 7 of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended.
Trends in Our Business
The following trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to affect our future results:
•Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves.
The continuing shift from an offline to online world has contributed to the growth of our business since inception, contributing to revenue growth, and we expect that this online shift will continue to benefit our business.
•Users are increasingly using diverse devices and modalities to access our products and services, and our advertising revenues are increasingly coming from new formats.
Our users are accessing the Internet via diverse devices and modalities, such as smartphones, wearables and smart home devices, and want to feel connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. We seek to expand our products and services to stay in front of these trends in order to maintain and grow our business.
We generate our advertising revenues increasingly from different channels, including mobile, and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these channels and newer products have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Additionally, as the market for a particular device type or modality matures our revenues may be affected. For example, growth in the global smartphone market has slowed due to various factors, including increased market saturation in developed countries, which can affect our mobile advertising revenue growth rates. 
We expect TAC paid to our distribution partners to increase as our revenues grow and to be affected by changes in device mix; geographic mix; partner mix; partner agreement terms; and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points. 
We expect these trends to continue to put pressure on our overall margins and affect our revenue growth rates.
•As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings which may affect our monetization.
As interactions between users and advertisers change and as online user behavior evolves, we continue to expand and evolve our product offerings to serve their changing needs. Over time, we expect our monetization trends to fluctuate. For example, we have seen an increase in YouTube engagement ads, which monetize at a lower rate than traditional search ads. 
•As users in developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue to increase and movements in foreign exchange rates affect such revenues.
The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, and we continue to develop localized versions of our products and relevant advertising programs useful to our users in these markets. This has led to a trend of increased revenues from international markets over time and we expect that our results will continue to be affected by our performance in these markets, particularly as low-cost mobile devices become more available. This trend could impact our margins as developing markets initially monetize at a lower rate than more mature markets.
Our international revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a foreign exchange risk management program designed to reduce our exposure to these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect on our revenues and earnings.

Alphabet Inc.

•The portion of our revenues that we derive from non-advertising revenues is increasing and may affect margins.
Non-advertising revenues have grown over time. We expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our offerings to our users through products and services like Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware products, and YouTube subscriptions. Across these initiatives, we currently derive non-advertising revenues primarily from sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings and subscription and other services. The margins on these revenues vary significantly and may be lower than the margins on our advertising revenues. A number of our Other Bets initiatives are in their initial development stages, and as such, the sources of revenues from these businesses could change over time and the revenues could be volatile.
•As we continue to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in operating and capital expenditures.
We continue to make significant R&D investments in areas of strategic focus such as advertising, cloud, machine learning, and search, as well as in new products and services. In addition, our capital expenditures have grown over the last several years. We expect this trend to continue in the long term as we invest heavily in land and buildings for data centers and offices, and information technology infrastructure, which includes servers and network equipment.
In addition, acquisitions remain an important part of our strategy and use of capital, and we expect to continue to spend cash on acquisitions and other investments. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas.

• | Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them.

Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue hiring talented employees around the globe and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees.
Executive Overview of Results
Below are our key financial results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 (consolidated unless otherwise noted):

• | Revenues of $161.9 billion and revenue growth of 18% year over year, constant currency revenue growth of 20% year over year.


• | Google segment revenues of $160.7 billion with revenue growth of 18% year over year and Other Bets revenues of $659 million with revenue growth of 11% year over year.


• | Revenues from the United States, EMEA, APAC, and Other Americas were $74.8 billion, $50.6 billion, $26.9 billion, and $9.0 billion, respectively.


• | Cost of revenues was $71.9 billion, consisting of TAC of $30.1 billion and other cost of revenues of $41.8 billion. Our TAC as a percentage of advertising revenues (TAC rate) was 22.3%.


• | Operating expenses (excluding cost of revenues) were $55.7 billion.


• | Income from operations was $34.2 billion.


• | Other income (expense), net, was $5.4 billion.


• | Effective tax rate was 13%.


• | Net income was $34.3 billion with diluted net income per share of $49.16.


• | Operating cash flow was $54.5 billion.


• | Capital expenditures were $23.5 billion.


• | Number of employees was 118,899 as of December 31, 2019. The majority of new hires during the year were engineers and product managers. By product area, the largest headcount additions were in Google Cloud and Search.

Information about Segments
We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets.

Alphabet Inc.

Our reported segments are:

• | Google – Google includes our main products such as ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings and subscription-based products.


• | Other Bets – Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X, among others. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily.

Revenues
The following table presents our revenues by segment and revenue source (in millions). Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Google Search & other | $ | 69,811 | | | $ | 85,296 | | $ | 98,115 
YouTube ads(1) | 8,150 | | | 11,155 | | | 15,149 
Google properties | 77,961 | | | 96,451 | | | 113,264
Google Network Members' properties | 17,616 | | | 20,010 | | | 21,547 
Google advertising | 95,577 | | | 116,461 | | | 134,811
Google Cloud | 4,056 | | | 5,838 | | | 8,918 
Google other(1) | 10,914 | | | 14,063 | | | 17,014 
Google revenues | 110,547 | | | 136,362 | | | 160,743
Other Bets revenues | 477 | | | 595 | | | 659 
Hedging gains (losses) | (169 | ) | | (138 | ) | | 455 
Total revenues | $ | 110,855 | | | $ | 136,819 | | $ | 161,857


(1) | YouTube non-advertising revenues are included in Google other revenues.

Google advertising revenues
Our advertising revenue growth, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google properties and the change in impressions and cost-per-impression on Google Network Members' properties and the correlation between these items, have been affected and may continue to be affected by various factors, including:

• | advertiser competition for keywords;


• | changes in advertising quality, formats, delivery or policy;


• | changes in device mix;


• | changes in foreign currency exchange rates;


• | fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs;


• | general economic conditions;


• | seasonality; and


• | traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals and channels.

Our advertising revenue growth rate has been affected over time as a result of a number of factors, including challenges in maintaining our growth rate as revenues increase to higher levels; changes in our product mix; changes in advertising quality or formats and delivery; the evolution of the online advertising market; increasing competition; our investments in new business strategies; query growth rates; and shifts in the geographic mix of our revenues. We also expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to be affected by evolving user preferences, the acceptance by users of our products and services as they are delivered on diverse devices and modalities, our ability to create a seamless experience for both users and advertisers, and movements in foreign currency exchange rates.

Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents our Google advertising revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Google Search & other | $ | 69,811 | | | $ | 85,296 | | | $ | 98,115 
YouTube ads(1) | 8,150 | | | 11,155 | | | 15,149 | 
Google Network Members' properties | 17,616 | | | 20,010 | | | 21,547 | 
Google advertising | $ | 95,577 | | | $ | 116,461 | | | $ | 134,811
Google advertising revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 86.5 | % | | 85.4 | % | | 83.9 | %

(1)    YouTube non-advertising revenues are included in Google other revenues.
Google advertising revenues are generated on our Google properties (including Google Search & other properties and YouTube) and Google Network Members’ properties. Google advertising revenues consist primarily of the following:

• | Google Search & other consists of revenues generated on Google search properties (including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.) and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play;


• | YouTube ads consists of revenues generated primarily on YouTube properties; and


• | Google Network Members' properties consist of revenues generated primarily on Google Network Members' properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.

Google Search & other
Our Google Search & other revenues increased $12,819 million from 2018 to 2019. The growth was primarily driven by interrelated factors including increases in search queries resulting from ongoing growth in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices, continued growth in advertiser activity, and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery. Revenue growth was partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Our Google Search & other revenues increased $15,485 million from 2017 to 2018. The growth was primarily driven by increases in mobile search resulting from ongoing growth in user adoption and usage, as well as continued growth in advertiser activity. Growth was also driven by improvements in ad formats and delivery, primarily on desktop. Additionally, revenue growth was favorably affected by the general weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
YouTube ads
YouTube ads revenues increased $3,994 million from 2018 to 2019 and increased $3,005 million from 2017 to 2018. The largest contributors to the growth during both periods were our direct response and brand advertising products, both of which benefited from improvements to ad formats and delivery and increased advertiser spending.
Google Network Members' properties
Our Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $1,537 million from 2018 to 2019. The growth was primarily driven by strength in both AdManager (included in what was previously referred to as programmatic advertising buying) and AdMob, partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Our Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $2,394 million from 2017 to 2018, primarily driven by strength in both AdMob and AdManager, offset by a decline in our traditional AdSense businesses. Additionally, the growth was favorably affected by the general weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Use of Monetization Metrics
Paid clicks for our Google properties represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users related to searches on Google.com and other owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play; and viewed YouTube engagement ads (certain YouTube ad formats are not included in our click or impression based metrics). Impressions for our Google Network Members' properties include impressions displayed to users served on Google Network Members' properties participating primarily in AdMob, AdSense and Google Ad Manager.
Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.

Alphabet Inc.

Cost-per-impression is defined as impression-based and click-based revenues divided by our total number of impressions and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each impression displayed to users.
As our business evolves, we periodically review, refine and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks on our Google properties and the number of impressions on Google Network Members’ properties and for identifying the revenues generated by click activity on our Google properties and the revenues generated by impression activity on Google Network Members’ properties.
Google properties
The following table presents changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
Paid clicks change | 62 | % | | 23 | % 
Cost-per-click change | (25 | )% | | (7 | )%

The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs on Google properties increased from 2018 to 2019 due to growth in views of YouTube engagement ads; increase in clicks due to interrelated factors, including an increase in search queries resulting from ongoing growth in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices; continued growth in advertiser activity; and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery. The positive effect on our revenues from an increase in paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The decrease in cost-per-click was primarily driven by continued growth in YouTube engagement ads where cost-per-click remains lower than on our other advertising platforms. Cost-per-click was also affected by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product changes, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Google Network Members' properties
The following table presents changes in our impressions and cost-per-impression (expressed as a percentage):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
Impressions change | 2 | % | | 9 | %
Cost-per-impression change | 12 | % | | 1 | %

Impressions increased from 2018 to 2019 primarily due to growth in AdManager. The cost-per-impression was relatively unchanged due to a combination of factors including ongoing product and policy changes and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, changes in device mix, geographic mix, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Google Cloud
The following table presents our Google Cloud revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Google Cloud | $ | 4,056 | | | $ | 5,838 | | | $ | 8,918
Google Cloud revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 3.7 | % | | 4.3 | % | | 5.5 | %

Google Cloud revenues consist primarily of revenues from Cloud offerings, including

• | Google Cloud Platform (GCP), which includes infrastructure, data and analytics, and other services


• | G Suite productivity tools; and


• | other enterprise cloud services.

Our Google Cloud revenues increased $3,080 million from 2018 to 2019 and increased $1,782 million from 2017 to 2018. The growth during both periods was primarily driven by continued strength in our GCP and G Suite offerings. Our infrastructure and our data and analytics platform products have been the largest drivers of growth in GCP.
31


Alphabet Inc.

Google other revenues
The following table presents our Google other revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Google other | 10,914 | | | 14,063 | | 17,014 | 
Google other revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 9.9 | % | | 10.3 | % | 10.6 | %

Google other revenues consist primarily of revenues from: 

• | Google Play, which includes revenues from sales of apps and in-app purchases (which we recognize net of payout to developers) and digital content sold in the Google Play store;


• | hardware, including Google Nest home products, Pixelbooks, Pixel phones and other devices;


• | YouTube non-advertising, including YouTube Premium and YouTube TV subscriptions and other services; and


• | other products and services.

Our Google other revenues increased $2,951 million from 2018 to 2019. The growth was primarily driven by Google Play and YouTube subscriptions.
Our Google other revenues increased $3,149 million from 2017 to 2018. The growth was primarily driven by Google Play and hardware.
Over time, our growth rate for Google Cloud and Google other revenues may be affected by the seasonality associated with new product and service launches and market dynamics.
Other Bets
The following table presents our Other Bets revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Other Bets revenues | $ | 477 | | | $ | 595 | | | $ | 659
Other Bets revenues as a percentage of total revenues | 0.4 | % | | 0.4 | % | | 0.4 | %

Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues from sales of Access internet and TV services and Verily licensing and R&D services.
Revenues by Geography
The following table presents our revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the addresses of our customers:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
United States | 46 | % | | 46 | %
EMEA | 33 | % | | 31 | %
APAC | 15 | % | | 17 | %
Other Americas | 6 | % | | 6 | %

For further details on revenues by geography, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Use of Constant Currency Revenues and Constant Currency Revenue Growth
The effect of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period to period comparisons. Our international revenues are favorably affected as the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other foreign currencies, and unfavorably affected as the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other foreign currencies. Our revenues are also favorably affected by net hedging gains and unfavorably affected by net hedging losses.
We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues and constant currency revenue growth for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results helps improve 

Alphabet Inc.

the ability to understand our performance because they exclude the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.
Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and use it to determine the constant currency revenue growth on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging effects realized in the current period.
Constant currency revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) is calculated by determining the increase in current period revenues over prior period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues of both periods.
These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.

Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents the foreign exchange effect on our international revenues and total revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
EMEA revenues | $ | 44,739 | | | $ | 50,645 
Exclude foreign exchange effect on current period revenues using prior year rates | (1,325 | ) | | 2,397 | 
EMEA constant currency revenues | $ | 43,414 | | | $ | 53,042 
Prior period EMEA revenues | $ | 36,236 | | | $ | 44,739 
EMEA revenue growth | 23 | % | | 13 | %
EMEA constant currency revenue growth | 20 | % | | 19 | %
APAC revenues | $ | 21,341 | | | $ | 26,928 
Exclude foreign exchange effect on current period revenues using prior year rates | (49 | ) | | 388 | 
APAC constant currency revenues | $ | 21,292 | | | $ | 27,316 
Prior period APAC revenues | $ | 16,192 | | | $ | 21,341 
APAC revenue growth | 32 | % | | 26 | %
APAC constant currency revenue growth | 31 | % | | 28 | %
Other Americas revenues | $ | 7,608 | | | $ | 8,986 
Exclude foreign exchange effect on current period revenues using prior year rates | 404 | | | 541 | 
Other Americas constant currency revenues | $ | 8,012 | | | $ | 9,527 
Prior period Other Americas revenues | $ | 6,147 | | | $ | 7,608 
Other Americas revenue growth | 24 | % | | 18 | %
Other Americas constant currency revenue growth | 30 | % | | 25 | %
United States revenues | $ | 63,269 | | | $ | 74,843 
United States revenue growth | 21 | % | | 18 | %
Hedging gains (losses) | (138 | ) | | 455 | 
Total revenues | $ | 136,819 | | | $ | 161,857
Total constant currency revenues | $ | 135,987 | | | $ | 164,728
Prior period revenues, excluding hedging effect(1) | $ | 111,024 | | | $ | 136,957
Total revenue growth | 23 | % | | 18 | %
Total constant currency revenue growth | 22 | % | | 20 | %


(1) | Total revenues and hedging gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2017 were $110,855 million and $(169) million, respectively.

Our EMEA revenue growth from 2018 to 2019 was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Euro and British pound.
Our APAC revenue growth from 2018 to 2019 was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Australian dollar and South Korean won, partially offset by the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Japanese yen.
Our Other Americas revenue growth from 2018 to 2019 was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Brazilian real and Argentine peso. 

Alphabet Inc.

Costs and Expenses
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of TAC which are paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
The cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network Members' properties are significantly higher than the cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google properties because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network Members’ properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network Members.
Additionally, other cost of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) includes the following:

• | Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube advertising and subscription services and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);


• | Expenses associated with our data centers and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expenses (including stock-based compensation (SBC)), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and


• | Inventory related costs for hardware we sell.

The following tables present our cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
TAC | $ | 26,726 | | | $ | 30,089
Other cost of revenues | 32,823 | | | 41,807 | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 59,549 | | | $ | 71,896
Total cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues | 43.5 | % | | 44.4 | %

Cost of revenues increased $12,347 million from 2018 to 2019. The increase was due to increases in other cost of revenues and TAC of $8,984 million and $3,363 million, respectively.
The increase in other cost of revenues from 2018 to 2019 was due to an increase in data center and other operations costs. Additionally, there was an increase in content acquisition costs for YouTube consistent with the growth in YouTube revenues.
The increase in TAC from 2018 to 2019 was due to increases in TAC paid to distribution partners and to Google Network Members, primarily driven by growth in revenues subject to TAC. The TAC rate decreased from 22.9% to 22.3%, primarily due to the favorable revenue mix shift from Google Network Members' properties to Google properties. The TAC rate on Google properties revenues increased primarily due to the ongoing shift to mobile, which carries higher TAC because more mobile searches are channeled through paid access points. The TAC rate on Google Network revenues decreased primarily due to changes in product mix to products that carry a lower TAC rate. 
Over time, cost of revenues as a percentage of total revenues may be affected by a number of factors, including the following:

• | The amount of TAC paid to Google Network Members, which is affected by a combination of factors such as geographic mix, product mix, revenue share terms, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies;


• | The amount of TAC paid to distribution partners, which is affected by changes in device mix, geographic mix, partner mix, partner agreement terms such as revenue share arrangements, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points;


• | Relative revenue growth rates of Google properties and Google Network Members' properties;


• | Costs associated with our data centers and other operations to support ads, Google Cloud, Search, YouTube and other products;


• | Content acquisition costs, which are primarily affected by the relative growth rates in our YouTube advertising and subscription revenues;


• | Costs related to hardware sales; and


• | Increased proportion of non-advertising revenues, which generally have higher costs of revenues, relative to our advertising revenues.


Alphabet Inc.

Research and Development
The following table presents our R&D expenses (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
Research and development expenses | $ | 21,419 | | | $ | 26,018
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues | 15.7 | % | | 16.1 | %

R&D expenses consist primarily of:

• | Compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs for engineering and technical employees responsible for R&D of our existing and new products and services;


• | Depreciation expenses;


• | Equipment-related expenses; and


• | Professional services fees primarily related to consulting and outsourcing services.

R&D expenses increased $4,599 million from 2018 to 2019. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $3,519 million, largely resulting from a 23% increase in headcount.
Over time, R&D expenses as a percentage of revenues may be affected by a number of factors including continued investment in ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware, machine learning, Other Bets, and Search.
Sales and Marketing
The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
Sales and marketing expenses | $ | 16,333 | | | $ | 18,464
Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues | 11.9 | % | | 11.4 | %

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of:

• | Advertising and promotional expenditures related to our products and services; and


• | Compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $2,131 million from 2018 to 2019. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $1,371 million, largely resulting from a 15% increase in headcount. In addition, there was an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $402 million.
Over time, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues may be affected by a number of factors including the seasonality associated with new product and service launches.
General and Administrative
The following table presents our general and administrative expenses (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
General and administrative expenses | $ | 6,923 | | | $ | 9,551
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues | 5.1 | % | | 5.9 | %

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of:

• | Compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs for employees in our finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations;


• | Depreciation expenses;


• | Equipment-related expenses;


• | Legal-related expenses; and


Alphabet Inc.


• | Professional services fees primarily related to audit, information technology consulting, outside legal, and outsourcing services.

General and administrative expenses increased $2,628 million from 2018 to 2019. The increase was primarily due to an increase in legal-related expenses of $1,157 million, including a charge of $554 million from a legal settlement in 2019 and the effect of a legal settlement gain recorded in 2018. Additionally, there was an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $687 million, largely resulting from a 19% increase in headcount.
Performance fees of $1,203 million have been reclassified from general and administrative expenses to other income (expense), net, for 2018 to conform with current period presentation. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. 
Over time, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues may be affected by discrete items such as legal settlements.
European Commission Fines
In July 2018, the EC announced its decision that certain provisions in Google's Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018) fine, which was accrued in the second quarter of 2018.
In March 2019, the EC announced its decision that certain contractual provisions in agreements that Google had with AdSense for Search partners infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019) fine, which was accrued in the first quarter of 2019.
Please refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table presents other income (expense), net, (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
Other income (expense), net | $ | 7,389 | | | $ | 5,394
Other income (expense), net, as a percentage of revenues | 5.4 | % | | 3.3 | %

Other income (expense), net, decreased $1,995 million from 2018 to 2019. This decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in gains on equity securities, which were $2,649 million in 2019 as compared to $5,460 million in 2018. The majority of the gains in both periods were unrealized. The effect of the decrease in gains on equity securities was partially offset by a decrease in performance fees. The decrease in other income (expense) was also driven by a decrease in gains on debt securities primarily due to an unrealized gain recognized in 2018 resulting from the modification of the terms of a non-marketable debt security.
Performance fees of $1,203 million have been reclassified from general and administrative expenses to other income (expense), net, for 2018 to conform with current period presentation. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. 
Over time, other income (expense), net, as a percentage of revenues may be affected by market dynamics and other factors. Equity values generally change daily for marketable equity securities and upon the occurrence of observable price changes or upon impairment of non-marketable equity securities. In addition, volatility in the global economic climate and financial markets could result in a significant change in the value of our equity securities. Fluctuations in the value of these investments has, and we expect will continue to, contribute to volatility of OI&E in future periods. For additional information about equity investments, see Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Alphabet Inc.

Provision for Income Taxes
The following table presents our provision for income taxes (in millions) and effective tax rate:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
Provision for income taxes | $ | 4,177 | | | $ | 5,282
Effective tax rate | 12.0 | % | | 13.3 | %

Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate increased from 2018 to 2019, due to discrete events in 2018 and 2019. In 2018, we released our deferred tax asset valuation allowance related to gains on equity securities and recognized the benefits of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). In 2019, we recognized an increase in discrete benefits related to the resolution of multi-year audits, partially offset by the reversal of Altera tax benefit as a result of the U.S. Court of Appeals decision. See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
As of December 31, 2019, we have simplified our corporate legal entity structure and now license intellectual property from the U.S. that was previously licensed from Bermuda. This will affect our geographic mix of earnings.
We expect our future effective tax rate to be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in countries with different statutory rates. Additionally, our future effective tax rate may be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items.

Alphabet Inc.

Quarterly Results of Operations
The following tables presenting our quarterly results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have prepared the unaudited information on the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements. Our operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future quarters or for a full year. 
The following table presents our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2019. This table includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that we consider necessary for a fair presentation of our consolidated financial position and operating results for the quarters presented. Seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and advertiser expenditures, underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality and macroeconomic conditions have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business. Commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends have caused, and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates.

 | Quarter Ended 
 | Mar 31,2018 | | Jun 30,2018 | | Sept 30,2018 | | Dec 31,2018 | Mar 31,2019 | | Jun 30,2019 | Sept 30,2019 | | Dec 31,2019
 | (In millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: | | | | | | | 
Revenues | $ | 31,146 | | | $ | 32,657 | | $ | 33,740 | | $ | 39,276 | | | $ | 36,339 | | | $ | 38,944 | $ | 40,499 | $ | 46,075
Costs and expenses: | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 13,467 | | | 13,883 | | | 14,281 | | 17,918 | | 16,012 | | | 17,296 | | | 17,568 | | | 21,020
Research and development | 5,039 | | | 5,114 | | | 5,232 | | 6,034 | | 6,029 | | | 6,213 | | | 6,554 | | | 7,222 
Sales and marketing | 3,604 | | | 3,780 | | | 3,849 | | 5,100 | | 3,905 | | | 4,212 | | | 4,609 | | | 5,738 
General and administrative | 1,403 | | | 1,764 | | | 1,753 | | 2,003 | | 2,088 | | | 2,043 | | | 2,591 | | | 2,829 
European Commission fines | 0 | | | 5,071 | | | 0 | | 0 | | 1,697 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Total costs and expenses | 23,513 | | | 29,612 | | | 25,115 | | 31,055 | | 29,731 | | | 29,764 | | | 31,322 | | | 36,809
Income from operations | 7,633 | | | 3,045 | | | 8,625 | | 8,221 | | 6,608 | | | 9,180 | | | 9,177 | | | 9,266 
Other income (expense), net | 2,910 | | | 1,170 | | | 1,458 | | 1,851 | | 1,538 | | | 2,967 | | | (549 | ) | | 1,438 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes | 10,543 | | | 4,215 | | | 10,083 | | 10,072 | | 8,146 | | | 12,147 | | | 8,628 | | | 10,704
Provision for income taxes | 1,142 | | | 1,020 | | | 891 | | 1,124 | | 1,489 | | | 2,200 | | | 1,560 | | | 33 
Net income | $ | 9,401 | | | $ | 3,195 | | $ | 9,192 | | $ | 8,948 | | | $ | 6,657 | | | $ | 9,947 | $ | 7,068 | $ | 10,671
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 13.53 | | | $ | 4.60 | | $ | 13.21 | | $ | 12.87 | | | $ | 9.58 | | | $ | 14.33 | $ | 10.20 | $ | 15.49 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 13.33 | | | $ | 4.54 | | $ | 13.06 | | $ | 12.77 | | | $ | 9.50 | | | $ | 14.21 | $ | 10.12 | $ | 15.35 

Capital Resources and Liquidity
As of December 31, 2019, we had $119.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and marketable equity securities.
As of December 31, 2019, we had long-term taxes payable of $7.3 billion related to a one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the Tax Act. As permitted by the Tax Act, we will pay the transition tax in annual interest-free installments through 2025.
In 2017, 2018 and 2019, the EC announced decisions that certain actions taken by Google infringed European competition law and imposed fines of €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017), €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018), and €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019), respectively. While each EC decision is under appeal, we included the fines in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines. 

Alphabet Inc.

In November 2019, we entered into an agreement to acquire Fitbit, a leading wearables brand, for $7.35 per share, representing a total purchase price of approximately $2.1 billion as of the date of the agreement. The acquisition of Fitbit is expected to be completed in 2020, subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals.
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from our operations. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace and form of capital return to stockholders.
We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2019. We have $4.0 billion of revolving credit facilities expiring in July 2023 with no amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2019. The interest rate for the credit facilities is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. We believe that our sources of funding will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements including capital expenditures, working capital requirements, potential acquisitions and other liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months. 
As of December 31, 2019, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 with a total carrying value of $4.0 billion. 
As of December 31, 2019, we had remaining authorization of $20.8 billion for repurchase of Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. Please refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases.
We continue to make significant investments in land and buildings for data centers and offices and information technology infrastructure through purchases of property and equipment and lease arrangements to provide capacity for the growth of our business. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we spent $23.5 billion on capital expenditures and recognized total operating lease assets of $4.4 billion. As of December 31, 2019, the amount of total future lease payments under operating leases, which had a weighted average remaining lease term of 10 years, was $13.9 billion. Finance leases were not material for the year ended December 31, 2019. Please refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the leases.
The following table presents our cash flows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 47,971 | | $ | 54,520 | 
Net cash used in investing activities | $ | (28,504 | ) | $ | (29,491 | )
Net cash used in financing activities | $ | (13,179 | ) | $ | (23,209 | )

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Our largest source of cash provided by our operations are advertising revenues generated by Google properties and Google Network Members' properties. Additionally, we generate cash through sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings and subscription-based products.
Our primary uses of cash from our operating activities include payments to our Google Network Members and distribution partners, and payments for content acquisition costs. In addition, uses of cash from operating activities include compensation and related costs, hardware inventory costs, other general corporate expenditures, and income taxes.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2018 to 2019 primarily due to increases in cash received from revenues, offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses.
Cash Used in Investing Activities
Cash provided by investing activities consists primarily of maturities and sales of our investments in marketable and non-marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of purchases of property and 

Alphabet Inc.

equipment, which primarily includes our investments in land and buildings for data centers and offices and information technology infrastructure to provide capacity for the growth of our businesses; purchases of marketable and non-marketable securities; and payments for acquisitions.
Net cash used in investing activities increased from 2018 to 2019 primarily due to a net increase in purchases of securities and an increase in payments for acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease in payments for purchases of property and equipment. The decrease in purchases of property and equipment was driven by decreases in purchases of servers as well as land and buildings for offices, partially offset by an increase in data center construction. 
Cash Used in Financing Activities
Cash provided by financing activities consists primarily of proceeds from issuance of debt and proceeds from sale of interest in consolidated entities. Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of net payments related to stock-based award activities, repurchases of capital stock, and repayments of debt.
Net cash used in financing activities increased from 2018 to 2019 primarily due to an increase in cash payments for repurchases of capital stock and a decrease in proceeds from sale of interest in consolidated entities. 
Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2019
The following summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 (in millions):

 | Payments Due By Period
 | Total | | Less than1 year | | 1-3years | | 3-5years | More than5 years
Operating lease obligations(1) | $ | 13,854 | | | $ | 1,757 | | $ | 3,525 | $ | 2,809 | $ | 5,763 
Obligations for leases that have not yet commenced(1) | 7,418 | | | 249 | | | 850 | | 1,314 | 5,005 | 
Purchase obligations(2) | 5,660 | | | 4,212 | | | 933 | | 202 | 313 | 
Long-term debt obligations(3) | 5,288 | | | 227 | | | 1,258 | | 1,224 | 2,579 | 
Tax payable(4) | 7,315 | | | 0 | | | 1,166 | | 3,661 | 2,488 | 
Other long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet(5) | 1,484 | | | 245 | | | 643 | | 367 | 229 | 
Total contractual obligations | $ | 41,019 | | | $ | 6,690 | | $ | 8,375 | $ | 9,577 | $ | 16,377


(1) | For further information, refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


(2) | Represents non-cancelable contractual obligations primarily related to information technology assets and data center operation costs; purchases of inventory; and digital media content licensing arrangements. The amounts included above represent the non-cancelable portion of agreements or the minimum cancellation fee. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of December 31, 2019. Excluded from the table above are open orders for purchases that support normal operations.


(3) | Represents our principal and interest payments. For further information on long-term debt, refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


(4) | Represents one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the Tax Act. For further information, refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Excluded from the table above are long-term taxes payable of $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2019 primarily related to uncertain tax positions, for which we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes.


(5) | Represents cash obligations recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, including the short-term portion of these long-term liabilities, primarily for the construction of offices and certain commercial agreements. These amounts do not include the EC fines which are classified as current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For further information regarding the EC fines, refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of December 31, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors.

Alphabet Inc.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, gains and losses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations will be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors.
Please see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of significant accounting policies and the effect on our financial statements.
Revenues
For the sale of third-party goods and services, we evaluate whether we are the principal, and report revenues on a gross basis, or an agent, and report revenues on a net basis. In this assessment, we consider if we obtain control of the specified goods or services before they are transferred to the customer, as well as other indicators such as the party primarily responsible for fulfillment, inventory risk, and discretion in establishing price.
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes.
Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made.
The provision for income taxes includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Loss Contingencies
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, non-income taxes, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood of there being, and the estimated amount of, a loss related to such matters. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Long-lived Assets
Long-lived assets, including property and equipment, long-term prepayments, and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows independent of other assets. An impairment loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows generated 

Alphabet Inc.

from the assets are less than their carrying amount. Measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value.
Fair Value Measurements
We measure certain of our non-marketable equity and debt investments, certain other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled in the stock of certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. The determination of fair value involves the use of appropriate valuation methods and relevant inputs into valuation models. The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value whereby it gives the highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs. We maximize the use of relevant observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Our use of unobservable inputs reflects the assumptions that market participants would use and may include our own data adjusted based on reasonably available information. We apply judgment in assessing the relevance of observable market data to determine the priority of inputs under the fair value hierarchy, particularly in situations where there is very little or no market activity.
In determining the fair values of our non-marketable equity and debt investments, as well as assets acquired (especially with respect to intangible assets) and liabilities assumed in business combinations, we make significant estimates and assumptions, some of which include the use of unobservable inputs.
Certain stock-based compensation awards may be settled in the stock of certain of our Other Bets or in cash. These awards are based on the equity values of the respective Other Bet, which requires use of unobservable inputs. 
We also have compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized investment returns, i.e. performance fees. We recognize compensation expense based on the estimated payouts, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized, and may require the use of unobservable inputs.
Non-marketable Equity Securities
Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are carried either at fair value or under the measurement alternative. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value is measured at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. Determining whether an observed transaction is similar to a security within our portfolio requires judgment based on the rights and obligations of the securities. Recording upward and downward adjustments to the carrying value of our equity securities as a result of observable price changes requires quantitative assessments of the fair value of our securities using various valuation methodologies and involves the use of estimates.
Non-marketable equity securities are also subject to periodic impairment reviews. Our quarterly impairment analysis considers both qualitative and quantitative factors that may have a significant effect on the investment's fair value. Qualitative factors considered include industry and market conditions, financial performance, business prospects, and other relevant events and factors. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare quantitative assessments of the fair value of our equity investments using both the market and income approaches which require judgment and the use of estimates, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data of private and public companies, among others. When our assessment indicates that an impairment exists, we measure our non-marketable securities at fair value.

ITEM 7A. | QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity investment risks.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We transact business globally in multiple currencies. Our international revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro and Japanese yen. For the purpose of analyzing foreign currency exchange risk, we considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% could be experienced in the near term.
We use foreign exchange forward contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the subsidiary. These forward contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign 

Alphabet Inc.

currency gains and losses on the assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which are offset by the gains and losses on the forward contracts.
If an adverse 10% foreign currency exchange rate change was applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currencies at the balance sheet dates, it would have resulted in an adverse effect on income before income taxes of approximately $1 million and $8 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. The adverse effect as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 is after consideration of the offsetting effect of approximately $374 million and $662 million, respectively, from foreign exchange contracts in place for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019.
We use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) to protect our forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency options and forwards reduce the foreign currency losses related to our earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency collars and forwards offset the foreign currency gains related to our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. We reflect the gains or losses of foreign currency spot rate changes as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassify them into revenues to offset the hedged exposures as they occur. 
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10% as of December 31, 2018 and 2019, the amount recorded in AOCI related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been approximately $772 million and $1.1 billion lower as of December 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. The change in the value recorded in AOCI would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in forecasted hedged revenues when recognized.
We use foreign exchange forward contracts designated as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to our investment in foreign subsidiaries. These forward contracts serve to offset the foreign currency translation risk from our foreign operations.
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10%, the amount recorded in cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) within AOCI related to our net investment hedge would have been approximately $635 million and $936 million lower as of December 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. The change in value recorded in CTA would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency translation gain or loss from our investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Interest Rate Risk
Our Corporate Treasury investment strategy is to achieve a return that will allow us to preserve capital and maintain liquidity. We invest primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. By policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Unrealized gains or losses on our marketable debt securities are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations as a result of higher market interest rates compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. We account for both fixed and variable rate securities at fair value with gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold. 
We use value-at-risk (VaR) analysis to determine the potential effect of fluctuations in interest rates on the value of our marketable debt security portfolio. The VaR is the expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due to adverse movements in interest rates. We use a variance/covariance VaR model with 95% confidence interval. The estimated one-day loss in fair value of our marketable debt securities as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 are shown below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, | | 12-Month Average As of December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019 | 2018 | | 2019
Risk Category - Interest Rate | $ | 58 | | $ | 104 | | $ | 66 | $ | 90

Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes in interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. VaR analysis is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation.

Alphabet Inc.

Equity Investment Risk
Our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings.
Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks or funds and our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages.
We record our marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method at fair value based on readily determinable market values, of which publicly traded stocks and mutual funds are subject to market price volatility, and represent $3.3 billion of our investments as of December 31, 2019. A hypothetical adverse price change of 10%, which could be experienced in the near term, would decrease the fair value of our marketable equity securities by $330 million. 
Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment (referred to as the measurement alternative). The fair value is measured at the time of the observable transaction, which is not necessarily an indication of the current fair value as of the balance sheet date. These investments, especially those that are in the early stages, are inherently risky because the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early phases and may never materialize and they may experience a decline in financial condition, which could result in a loss of a substantial part of our investment in these companies. The success of our investment in any private company is also typically dependent on the likelihood of our ability to realize appreciation in the value of our investments through liquidity events such as public offerings, acquisitions, private sales or other favorable market events. As of December 31, 2019, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities, which were accounted for under the measurement alternative, was $11.4 billion. Valuations of our equity investments in private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. Volatility in the global economic climate and financial markets could result in a significant impairment charge on our non-marketable equity securities. 
The carrying values of our equity method investments generally do not fluctuate based on market price changes, however these investments could be impaired if the carrying value exceeds the fair value.
For further information about our equity investments, please refer to Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 8. | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Alphabet Inc.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 | Page
Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 47 
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 50 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 51 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 52 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 53 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 54 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 55 

The supplementary financial information required by this Item 8 is included in Item 7 under the caption “Quarterly Results of Operations.”

Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2018 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15 (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2018 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 3, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Adoption of New Accounting Standard
As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company changed its method for accounting for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of certain equity securities in the year ended December 31, 2018.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. 

Alphabet Inc.

Loss Contingencies 

Description of the Matter | The Company is regularly subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by its users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using their platforms, and other matters. As described in Note 10 to the financial statements “Commitments and Contingencies” such claims could result in adverse consequences.Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood, and the estimated amount, of a loss related to such matters. Auditing management’s accounting for and disclosure of loss contingencies from these matters involved challenging and subjective auditor judgement in assessing the Company’s evaluation of the probability of a loss, and the estimated amount or range of loss.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit | We tested relevant controls over the identified risks associated with management’s accounting for and disclosure of these matters. This included controls over management’s assessment of the probability of incurrence of a loss and whether the loss or range of loss was reasonably estimable and the development of related disclosures.Our audit procedures included gaining an understanding of previous rulings issued by regulators and the status of ongoing lawsuits, reviewing letters addressing the matters from internal and external legal counsel, meeting with internal legal counsel to discuss the allegations, and obtaining a representation letter from management on these matters. We also evaluated the Company’s disclosures in relation to these matters. 


/s/ Ernst & Young LLP 
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1999.
San Jose, California 
February 3, 2020 


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Alphabet Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Alphabet Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the 2019 consolidated financial statements of the Company and our report dated February 3, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 3, 2020 


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands, and par value per share amounts)

 | As of December 31, 2018 | | As ofDecember 31, 2019
Assets | | | 
Current assets: | | | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 16,701 | | | $ | 18,498 
Marketable securities | 92,439 | | | 101,177 | 
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | 109,140 | | | 119,675 | 
Accounts receivable, net of allowance of $729 and $753 | 20,838 | | | 25,326 | 
Income taxes receivable, net | 355 | | | 2,166 | 
Inventory | 1,107 | | | 999 | 
Other current assets | 4,236 | | | 4,412 | 
Total current assets | 135,676 | | | 152,578 | 
Non-marketable investments | 13,859 | | | 13,078 | 
Deferred income taxes | 737 | | | 721 | 
Property and equipment, net | 59,719 | | | 73,646 | 
Operating lease assets | 0 | | | 10,941 | 
Intangible assets, net | 2,220 | | | 1,979 | 
Goodwill | 17,888 | | | 20,624 | 
Other non-current assets | 2,693 | | | 2,342 | 
Total assets | $ | 232,792 | | | $ | 275,909
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity | | | 
Current liabilities: | | | 
Accounts payable | $ | 4,378 | | | $ | 5,561 
Accrued compensation and benefits | 6,839 | | | 8,495 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 16,958 | | | 23,067 | 
Accrued revenue share | 4,592 | | | 5,916 | 
Deferred revenue | 1,784 | | | 1,908 | 
Income taxes payable, net | 69 | | | 274 | 
Total current liabilities | 34,620 | | | 45,221 | 
Long-term debt | 4,012 | | | 4,554 | 
Deferred revenue, non-current | 396 | | | 358 | 
Income taxes payable, non-current | 11,327 | | | 9,885 | 
Deferred income taxes | 1,264 | | | 1,701 | 
Operating lease liabilities | 0 | | | 10,214 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 3,545 | | | 2,534 | 
Total liabilities | 55,164 | | | 74,467 | 
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 10) | | | | 
Stockholders’ equity: | | | 
Convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share, 100,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding | 0 | | | 0 | 
Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.001 par value per share: 15,000,000 shares authorized (Class A 9,000,000, Class B 3,000,000, Class C 3,000,000); 695,556 (Class A 299,242, Class B 46,636, Class C 349,678) and 688,335 (Class A 299,828, Class B 46,441, Class C 342,066) shares issued and outstanding | 45,049 | | | 50,552 | 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss | (2,306 | ) | | (1,232 | )
Retained earnings | 134,885 | | | 152,122 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 177,628 | | | 201,442 | 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity | $ | 232,792 | | | $ | 275,909

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Revenues | $ | 110,855 | | | $ | 136,819 | | $ | 161,857
Costs and expenses: | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 45,583 | | | 59,549 | | | 71,896 
Research and development | 16,625 | | | 21,419 | | | 26,018 
Sales and marketing | 12,893 | | | 16,333 | | | 18,464 
General and administrative | 6,840 | | | 6,923 | | | 9,551 
European Commission fines | 2,736 | | | 5,071 | | | 1,697 
Total costs and expenses | 84,677 | | | 109,295 | | | 127,626
Income from operations | 26,178 | | | 27,524 | | | 34,231 
Other income (expense), net | 1,015 | | | 7,389 | | | 5,394 
Income before income taxes | 27,193 | | | 34,913 | | | 39,625 
Provision for income taxes | 14,531 | | | 4,177 | | | 5,282 
Net income | $ | 12,662 | | | $ | 30,736 | | $ | 34,343 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 18.27 | | | $ | 44.22 | | $ | 49.59 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 18.00 | | | $ | 43.70 | | $ | 49.16 

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Net income | $ | 12,662 | | | $ | 30,736 | | | $ | 34,343
Other comprehensive income (loss): | | | | | 
Change in foreign currency translation adjustment | 1,543 | | | (781 | ) | | (119 | )
Available-for-sale investments: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 307 | | | 88 | | | 1,611 | 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | 105 | | | (911 | ) | | (111 | )
Net change (net of tax effect of $0, $156, and $221) | 412 | | | (823 | ) | | 1,500 | 
Cash flow hedges: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | (638 | ) | | 290 | | | 22 | 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | 93 | | | 98 | | | (299 | )
Net change (net of tax effect of $247, $103, and $42) | (545 | ) | | 388 | | | (277 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 1,410 | | | (1,216 | ) | | 1,104 | 
Comprehensive income | $ | 14,072 | | | $ | 29,520 | | | $ | 35,447

See accompanying notes.
52


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands)

 | Class A and Class BCommon Stock, Class C Capital Stock andAdditional Paid-In Capital | | AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss) | | RetainedEarnings | TotalStockholders’Equity
 | Shares | | Amount | 
Balance as of December 31, 2016 | 691,293 | | | $ | 36,307 | | $ | (2,402 | ) | | $ | 105,131 | | $ | 139,036
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | (15 | ) | | (15 | )
Common and capital stock issued | 8,652 | | | 212 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 212 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | | 7,694 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 7,694 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | 0 | | | (4,373 | ) | 0 | | | 0 | | | (4,373 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | (5,162 | ) | | (315 | ) | 0 | | | (4,531 | ) | | (4,846 | )
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | | 722 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 722 | 
Net income | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | 12,662 | | | 12,662 | 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | | 0 | | 1,410 | | | 0 | | | 1,410 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2017 | 694,783 | | | 40,247 | | (992 | ) | | 113,247 | | | 152,502 | 
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 0 | | (98 | ) | | (599 | ) | | (697 | )
Common and capital stock issued | 8,975 | | | 148 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 148 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | | 9,353 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 9,353 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | | (4,782 | ) | 0 | | | 0 | | | (4,782 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | (8,202 | ) | | (576 | ) | 0 | | | (8,499 | ) | | (9,075 | )
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | | 659 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 659 | 
Net income | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | 30,736 | | | 30,736 | 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | | 0 | | (1,216 | ) | | 0 | | | (1,216 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2018 | 695,556 | | | 45,049 | | (2,306 | ) | | 134,885 | | | 177,628 | 
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 0 | | (30 | ) | | (4 | ) | | (34 | )
Common and capital stock issued | 8,120 | | | 202 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 202 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | | 10,890 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 10,890 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | | (4,455 | ) | 0 | | | 0 | | | (4,455 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | (15,341 | ) | | (1,294 | ) | 0 | | | (17,102 | ) | | (18,396 | )
Sale of interest in consolidated entities | 0 | | | 160 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 160 | 
Net income | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | 34,343 | | | 34,343 | 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 0 | | | 0 | | 1,104 | | | 0 | | | 1,104 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2019 | 688,335 | | | $ | 50,552 | | $ | (1,232 | ) | | $ | 152,122 | | $ | 201,442

See accompanying notes.
53


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Operating activities | | | | | 
Net income | $ | 12,662 | | | $ | 30,736 | | | $ | 34,343
Adjustments: | | | | | 
Depreciation and impairment of property and equipment | 6,103 | | | 8,164 | | | 10,856 | 
Amortization and impairment of intangible assets | 812 | | | 871 | | | 925 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 7,679 | | | 9,353 | | | 10,794 | 
Deferred income taxes | 258 | | | 778 | | | 173 | 
(Gain) loss on debt and equity securities, net | 37 | | | (6,650 | ) | | (2,798 | )
Other | 294 | | | (189 | ) | | (592 | )
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions: | | | | | 
Accounts receivable | (3,768 | ) | | (2,169 | ) | | (4,340 | )
Income taxes, net | 8,211 | | | (2,251 | ) | | (3,128 | )
Other assets | (2,164 | ) | | (1,207 | ) | | (621 | )
Accounts payable | 731 | | | 1,067 | | | 428 | 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities | 4,891 | | | 8,614 | | | 7,170 | 
Accrued revenue share | 955 | | | 483 | | | 1,273 | 
Deferred revenue | 390 | | | 371 | | | 37 | 
Net cash provided by operating activities | 37,091 | | | 47,971 | | | 54,520 | 
Investing activities | | | | | 
Purchases of property and equipment | (13,184 | ) | | (25,139 | ) | | (23,548 | )
Purchases of marketable securities | (92,195 | ) | | (50,158 | ) | | (100,315 | )
Maturities and sales of marketable securities | 73,959 | | | 48,507 | | | 97,825 | 
Purchases of non-marketable investments | (1,745 | ) | | (2,073 | ) | | (1,932 | )
Maturities and sales of non-marketable investments | 533 | | | 1,752 | | | 405 | 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible assets | (287 | ) | | (1,491 | ) | | (2,515 | )
Proceeds from collection of notes receivable | 1,419 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Other investing activities | 99 | | | 98 | | | 589 | 
Net cash used in investing activities | (31,401 | ) | | (28,504 | ) | | (29,491 | )
Financing activities | | | | | 
Net payments related to stock-based award activities | (4,166 | ) | | (4,993 | ) | | (4,765 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | (4,846 | ) | | (9,075 | ) | | (18,396 | )
Proceeds from issuance of debt, net of costs | 4,291 | | | 6,766 | | | 317 | 
Repayments of debt | (4,377 | ) | | (6,827 | ) | | (585 | )
Proceeds from sale of interest in consolidated entities | 800 | | | 950 | | | 220 | 
Net cash used in financing activities | (8,298 | ) | | (13,179 | ) | | (23,209 | )
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents | 405 | | | (302 | ) | | (23 | )
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents | (2,203 | ) | | 5,986 | | | 1,797 | 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period | 12,918 | | | 10,715 | | | 16,701 | 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period | $ | 10,715 | | | $ | 16,701 | | | $ | 18,498
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information | | | | | 
Cash paid for taxes, net of refunds | $ | 6,191 | | | $ | 5,671 | | | $ | 8,203 

See accompanying notes.

Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Nature of Operations
Google was incorporated in California in September 1998 and re-incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2003. In 2015, we implemented a holding company reorganization, and as a result, Alphabet Inc. (Alphabet) became the successor issuer to Google.
We generate revenues primarily by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet include the accounts of Alphabet and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models. Noncontrolling interests are not presented separately as the amounts are not material. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.Use of Estimates
Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the bad debt allowance, sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, income taxes, and contingent liabilities, among others. We base our estimates on assumptions, both historical and forward looking, that are believed to be reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenues when we transfer control of promised goods or services to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
See Note 2 for further discussion on Revenues.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of TAC and other costs of revenues.
TAC represents the amounts paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
Other cost of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) includes the following:

• | Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);


• | Expenses associated with our data centers and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expense (including SBC), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and


• | Inventory related costs for hardware we sell.

Stock-based Compensation
Stock-based compensation primarily consists of Alphabet restricted stock units (RSUs). RSUs are equity classified and measured at the fair market value of the underlying stock at the grant date. We recognize RSU expense using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period and account for forfeitures as they occur.
For RSUs, shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the applicable statutory tax withholding to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, fewer shares are issued than the number of RSUs outstanding and the tax withholding is recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital.
Additionally, stock-based compensation includes stock-based awards, such as performance stock units (PSUs) and awards that may be settled in cash or the stock of certain of our Other Bets. PSUs are equity classified and expense is recognized over the requisite service period. Awards that are liability classified are remeasured at fair value through 

Alphabet Inc.

settlement or maturity (six months and one day after vesting). The fair value of such awards is based on the equity valuation of the respective Other Bet.
Performance Fees
We have compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized investment returns. We recognize compensation expense based on the estimated payouts, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized. Performance fees, which are primarily related to gains on equity securities, are recorded as a component of other income (expense), net.
Certain Risks and Concentrations
Our revenues are primarily derived from online advertising, the market for which is highly competitive and rapidly changing. In addition, our revenues are generated from a multitude of markets in countries around the world. Significant changes in this industry or changes in customer buying or advertiser spending behavior could adversely affect our operating results.
No individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than 10% of our revenues in 2017, 2018, or 2019. In 2017, 2018, and 2019, we generated approximately 47%, 46%, and 46% of our revenues, respectively, from customers based in the U.S.
We are subject to concentrations of credit risk principally from cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. We manage our credit risk exposure through timely assessment of our counterparty creditworthiness, credit limits and use of collateral management.
Cash equivalents and marketable securities consist primarily of time deposits, money market and other funds, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments issued by foreign governments, debt instruments issued by municipalities in the U.S., corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from customers located around the world. We perform ongoing evaluations to determine customer credit and we limit the amount of credit we extend. We generally do not require collateral from our customers. We maintain reserves for estimated credit losses and these losses have generally been within our expectations.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative contracts, and non-marketable debt securities. Our financial assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include non-marketable equity securities, which are adjusted to fair value when observable price changes are identified or when the non-marketable equity securities are impaired (referred to as the measurement alternative). Other financial assets and liabilities are carried at cost with fair value disclosed, if required.
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured and classified in accordance with a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the observability of the inputs available in the market used to measure fair value:
Level 1 - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2 - Inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activities.
The fair value hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
We invest all excess cash primarily in government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, time deposits, and money market funds.

Alphabet Inc.

We classify all marketable investments that have stated maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase as cash equivalents and those with stated maturities of greater than three months as marketable securities.
We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. We have classified and accounted for our marketable debt securities as available-for-sale. After consideration of our risk versus reward objectives, as well as our liquidity requirements, we may sell these debt securities prior to their stated maturities. As we view these securities as available to support current operations, we classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond 12 months as current assets under the caption marketable securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We carry these securities at fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, as a component of stockholders’ equity, except for unrealized losses determined to be other-than-temporary, which we record within other income (expense), net. We determine any realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable debt securities on a specific identification method, and we record such gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net.
Non-Marketable Investments
We account for non-marketable equity investments through which we exercise significant influence but do not have control over the investee under the equity method. Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are primarily accounted for under the measurement alternative in accordance with Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01, which we adopted on January 1, 2018. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments is adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment. Adjustments are determined primarily based on a market approach as of the transaction date.
We account for our non-marketable investments that meet the definition of a debt security as available-for-sale securities.
We classify our non-marketable investments that do not have stated contractual maturity dates, as non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Impairment of Investments
We periodically review our debt and equity investments for impairment. For debt securities we consider the duration, severity and the reason for the decline in security value; whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis; or if the amortized cost basis cannot be recovered as a result of credit losses. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the security to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net. For equity securities we consider impairment indicators such as negative changes in industry and market conditions, financial performance, business prospects, and other relevant events and factors. If indicators exist and the fair value of the security is below the carrying amount, we write down the security to fair value. 
Variable Interest Entities
We determine at the inception of each arrangement whether an entity in which we have made an investment or in which we have other variable interests in is considered a variable interest entity (VIE). We consolidate VIEs when we are the primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that meets both of the following criteria: (1) has the power to make decisions that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE; and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE. Periodically, we assess whether any changes in our interest or relationship with the entity affect our determination of whether the entity is still a VIE and, if so, whether we are the primary beneficiary. If we are not the primary beneficiary in a VIE, we account for the investment or other variable interests in a VIE in accordance with applicable GAAP.
Accounts Receivable
We record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to reserve for potentially uncollectible receivables. We review the accounts receivable by amounts due from customers that are past due to identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. In determining the amount of the reserve, we make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations.
Our payment terms vary by the type and location of our customer and the products or services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer.

Alphabet Inc.

Leases
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Our lease agreements generally contain lease and non-lease components. Payments under our lease arrangements are primarily fixed. Non-lease components primarily include payments for maintenance and utilities. We combine fixed payments for non-lease components with lease payments and account for them together as a single lease component which increases the amount of our lease assets and liabilities.
Certain lease agreements contain variable payments, which are expensed as incurred and not included in the lease assets and liabilities. These amounts include payments affected by the Consumer Price Index, payments contingent on wind or solar production for power purchase arrangements, and payments for maintenance and utilities.
Lease assets and liabilities are recognized at the present value of the future lease payments at the lease commencement date. The interest rate used to determine the present value of the future lease payments is our incremental borrowing rate, because the interest rate implicit in our leases is not readily determinable. Our incremental borrowing rate is estimated to approximate the interest rate on a collateralized basis with similar terms and payments, and in economic environments where the leased asset is located. Our lease terms include periods under options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. We generally use the base, non-cancelable, lease term when determining the lease assets and liabilities. Lease assets also include any prepaid lease payments and lease incentives.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet beginning January 1, 2019. The current portion of our operating lease liabilities is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and the long term portion is included in operating lease liabilities. Finance lease assets are included in property and equipment, net. Finance lease liabilities are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities or long-term debt.
Operating lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment includes the following categories: land and buildings, information technology assets, construction in progress, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. Land and buildings include land, offices, data centers and related building improvements. Information technology assets include servers and network equipment. We account for property and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation. We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. We depreciate buildings over periods of seven to 25 years. We depreciate information technology assets generally over periods of three to five years (specifically, three years for servers and three to five years for network equipment).
We depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets. Construction in progress is the construction or development of property and equipment that have not yet been placed in service for our intended use. Depreciation for equipment, buildings, and leasehold improvements commences once they are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated.
Inventory
Inventory consists primarily of finished goods and is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is computed using the first-in, first-out method.
Software Development Costs
We expense software development costs, including costs to develop software products or the software component of products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, before technological feasibility is reached. Technological feasibility is typically reached shortly before the release of such products and as a result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented.
Software development costs also include costs to develop software to be used solely to meet internal needs and cloud based applications used to deliver our services. We capitalize development costs related to these software applications once the preliminary project stage is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented.
Business Combinations
We include the results of operations of the businesses that we acquire as of the acquisition date. We allocate the purchase price of the acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair 

Alphabet Inc.

values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred.
Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets
We review property and equipment, long-term prepayments and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets or the asset group are expected to generate. If the carrying value of the assets are not recoverable, the impairment recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. Impairments were not material for the periods presented.
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the expected benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairments were not material for the periods presented.
Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We amortize intangible assets on a straight-line basis with definite lives generally over periods ranging from one to twelve years.
Income Taxes
We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which we recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based on provisions of enacted tax law. We evaluate the realization of our deferred tax assets based on all available evidence and establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will not be realized.
We recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not that, based on technical merits, the position will be sustained upon examination. The tax benefits of the position recognized in the financial statements are then measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. In addition, we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the income tax provision.
Foreign Currency
Generally, the functional currency of our international subsidiaries is the local currency. We translate the financial statements of these subsidiaries to U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. We record translation gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) as a component of stockholders’ equity. We reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion of the transaction currency to functional currency as a component of foreign currency exchange gain (loss) in other income (expense), net.
Advertising and Promotional Expenses
We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $5.1 billion, $6.4 billion, and $6.8 billion, respectively.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 (ASU 2016-13) "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments", which requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost. ASU 2016-13 replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss model which requires the use of forward-looking information to calculate credit loss estimates. It also eliminates the concept of other-than-temporary impairment and requires credit losses related to available-for-sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction in the amortized cost basis of the securities. These changes will result in earlier recognition of credit losses. We will adopt ASU 2016-13 effective January 1, 2020 with the cumulative effect of adoption recorded as an adjustment to retained earnings. The effect on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures is not expected to be material.

Alphabet Inc.

Recently adopted accounting pronouncements
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 (Topic 842) "Leases." Topic 842 supersedes the lease requirements in Accounting Standards Codification Topic 840, "Leases." Under Topic 842, lessees are required to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most leases and provide enhanced disclosures. Leases continue to be classified as either finance or operating. We adopted Topic 842 effective January 1, 2019. The most significant effects of Topic 842 were the recognition of $8.0 billion of operating lease assets and $8.4 billion of operating lease liabilities and the de-recognition of $1.5 billion of build-to-suit assets and liabilities upon adoption. We applied Topic 842 to all leases as of January 1, 2019 with comparative periods continuing to be reported under Topic 840. In the adoption of Topic 842, we carried forward the assessment from Topic 840 of whether our contracts contain or are leases, the classification of our leases, and remaining lease terms. Our accounting for finance leases remains substantially unchanged. The standard did not have a significant effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows. See Note 4 for further details.
Prior Period Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation. Hedging gains (losses), which were previously included in Google revenues, are now reported separately as a component of total revenues for all periods presented. See Note 2 for further details.
Additionally, performance fees have been reclassified for all periods from general and administrative expenses to other income (expense), net to align with the presentation of the investment gains and losses on which the performance fees are based. See Note 7 for further details.
Note 2. Revenues
Revenue Recognition
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that we expect in exchange for those goods or services. Sales and other similar taxes are excluded from revenues.
The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by type (in millions). Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Google Search & other | $ | 69,811 | | | $ | 85,296 | | $ | 98,115 
YouTube ads(1) | 8,150 | | | 11,155 | | | 15,149 
Google properties | 77,961 | | | 96,451 | | | 113,264
Google Network Members' properties | 17,616 | | | 20,010 | | | 21,547 
Google advertising | 95,577 | | | 116,461 | | | 134,811
Google Cloud | 4,056 | | | 5,838 | | | 8,918 
Google other(1) | 10,914 | | | 14,063 | | | 17,014 
Google revenues | 110,547 | | | 136,362 | | | 160,743
Other Bets revenues | 477 | | | 595 | | | 659 
Hedging gains (losses) | (169 | ) | | (138 | ) | | 455 
Total revenues | $ | 110,855 | | | $ | 136,819 | | $ | 161,857


(1) | YouTube non-advertising revenues are included in Google other revenues.

60


Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the addresses of our customers (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
United States | $ | 52,449 | | | 47 | % | | $ | 63,269 | | 46 | % | $ | 74,843 | 46 | %
EMEA(1) | 36,236 | | | 33 | | | 44,739 | | | 33 | | 50,645 | | 31 
APAC(1) | 16,192 | | | 15 | | | 21,341 | | | 15 | | 26,928 | | 17 
Other Americas(1) | 6,147 | | | | | | 7,608 | | | | | 8,986 | | 6 
Hedging gains (losses) | (169 | ) | | 0 | | | (138 | ) | | 0 | | 455 | | 0 
Total revenues | $ | 110,855 | | | 100 | % | | $ | 136,819 | | 100 | % | $ | 161,857 | 100 | %


(1) | Regions represent Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific (APAC); and Canada and Latin America (Other Americas).

Advertising Revenues
We generate advertising revenues primarily by delivering advertising on Google properties, including Google.com, the Google Search app, YouTube, Google Play, Gmail and Google Maps; and Google Network Members’ properties.
Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through Google Ads, Google Ad Manager as part of the Authorized Buyers marketplace, and Google Marketing Platform, among others.
We offer advertising on a click, impression or view basis. We recognize revenue each time a user clicks on the ad, when the ad is displayed or a user views the ad.
For ads placed on Google Network Members’ properties, we evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis). Generally, we report advertising revenues for ads placed on Google Network Members’ properties on a gross basis, that is, the amounts billed to our customers are recorded as revenues, and amounts paid to Google Network Members are recorded as cost of revenues. Where we are the principal, we control the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers. Our control is evidenced by our sole ability to monetize the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers, and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing.
Google Cloud Revenues
Google Cloud revenues consist primarily of revenues from Google Cloud Platform (which includes infrastructure and data and analytics platform products, and other services), G Suite productivity tools and other enterprise cloud services. Our cloud revenues are provided on either a consumption or subscription basis. Revenue related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis is recognized when the customer utilizes the services, based on the quantity of services consumed. Revenue related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis is recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services.
Other Revenues
Google other revenues and Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues from:

• | Google Play, which includes revenues from sale of apps and in-app purchases (which we recognize net of payout to developers) and digital content sold in the Google Play store;


• | hardware, including Google Nest home products, Pixelbooks, Pixel phones and other devices;


• | YouTube non-advertising including, YouTube premium and YouTube TV subscriptions and other services; and


• | other products and services.

As it relates to Google other revenues, the most significant judgment is determining whether we are the principal or agent for app sales and in-app purchases through the Google Play store. We report revenues from these transactions on a net basis because our performance obligation is to facilitate a transaction between app developers and end users, for which we earn a commission. Consequently, the portion of the gross amount billed to end users that is remitted to app developers is not reflected as revenues.
Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations
Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We generally determine standalone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus margin.
61


Alphabet Inc.

Customer Incentives and Credits
Certain customers receive cash-based incentives or credits, which are accounted for as variable consideration. We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenues. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration.
Deferred Revenues
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance, including amounts which are refundable. The increase in the deferred revenue balance for the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily driven by cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, offset by $1.7 billion of revenues recognized that were included in the deferred revenue balance as of December 31, 2018.
Additionally, we have performance obligations associated with commitments in customer contracts, primarily related to Google Cloud, for future services that have not yet been recognized in revenue. This includes related deferred revenue currently recorded and amounts that will be invoiced in future periods. As of December 31, 2019, the amount not yet recognized in revenue from these commitments is $11.4 billion, which reflects our assessment of relevant contract terms. This amount excludes contracts (i) with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed. We expect to recognize approximately two thirds over the next 24 months with the remaining thereafter. However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition is largely driven by customer utilization, which could impact our estimate of the remaining amount of commitments and when we expect to recognize such revenues.
Sales Commissions
We generally expense sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses.
Note 3. Financial Instruments
Debt Securities
We classify our marketable debt securities within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we use quoted market prices to the extent available or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs to determine fair value.
 The following tables summarize our debt securities by significant investment categories as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2018
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | $ | 2,202 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 2,202 | | $ | 2,202 | $ | 0 
Government bonds | 53,634 | | | 71 | | | (414 | ) | | 53,291 | | 3,717 | | 49,574 | 
Corporate debt securities | 25,383 | | | 15 | | | (316 | ) | | 25,082 | | 44 | | 25,038 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 16,918 | | | 11 | | | (324 | ) | | 16,605 | | 0 | | 16,605 | 
Total | $ | 98,137 | | | $ | 97 | | | $ | (1,054 | ) | $ | 97,180 | | $ | 5,963 | $ | 91,217

62


Alphabet Inc.


 | As of December 31, 2019
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | $ | 2,294 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 2,294 | | $ | 2,294 | $ | 0 
Government bonds | 55,033 | | | 434 | | | (30 | ) | | 55,437 | | 4,518 | | 50,919 | 
Corporate debt securities | 27,164 | | | 337 | | | (3 | ) | | 27,498 | | 44 | | 27,454 | 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 19,453 | | | 96 | | | (41 | ) | | 19,508 | | 0 | | 19,508 | 
Total | $ | 103,944 | | | $ | 867 | | | $ | (74 | ) | $ | 104,737 | | $ | 6,856 | $ | 97,881


(1) | The majority of our time deposits are domestic deposits.

We determine realized gains or losses on the sale or extinguishment of debt securities on a specific identification method. We recognized gross realized gains of $185 million, $1.3 billion, and $292 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018, and 2019, respectively. We recognized gross realized losses of $295 million, $143 million, and $143 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018, and 2019, respectively. We reflect these gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of our investments in marketable debt securities with stated contractual maturity dates, accounted for as available-for-sale securities and classified by the contractual maturity date of the securities (in millions):

 | As ofDecember 31, 2019
Due in 1 year | $ | 20,392
Due in 1 year through 5 years | 63,151 | 
Due in 5 years through 10 years | 2,671 | 
Due after 10 years | 11,667 | 
Total | $ | 97,881

The following tables present gross unrealized losses and fair values for those investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2018 and 2019, aggregated by investment category and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2018
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds | $ | 12,019 | | | $ | (85 | ) | $ | 23,877 | | $ | (329 | ) | | $ | 35,896 | $ | (414 | )
Corporate debt securities | 10,171 | | | (107 | ) | | 11,545 | | (209 | ) | 21,716 | | | (316 | )
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 5,534 | | | (75 | ) | | 8,519 | | (249 | ) | 14,053 | | | (324 | )
Total | $ | 27,724 | | | $ | (267 | ) | $ | 43,941 | | $ | (787 | ) | | $ | 71,665 | $ | (1,054 | )


 | As of December 31, 2019
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds | $ | 6,752 | | | $ | (20 | ) | $ | 4,590 | | $ | (10 | ) | | $ | 11,342 | $ | (30 | )
Corporate debt securities | 1,665 | | | (2 | ) | | 978 | | (1 | ) | 2,643 | | | (3 | )
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 4,536 | | | (13 | ) | | 2,835 | | (28 | ) | 7,371 | | | (41 | )
Total | $ | 12,953 | | | $ | (35 | ) | $ | 8,403 | | $ | (39 | ) | | $ | 21,356 | $ | (74 | )

63


Alphabet Inc.

During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, we did not recognize any significant other-than-temporary impairment losses.
Equity Investments
The following discusses our marketable equity securities, non-marketable equity securities, gains and losses on marketable and non-marketable equity securities, as well as our equity securities accounted for under the equity method.
Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks or funds measured at fair value and classified within Level 1 and 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we use quoted prices for identical assets in active markets or inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets. All gains and losses on marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized in other income (expense), net.
Our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies without readily determinable market values. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities is adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment (referred to as the measurement alternative). All gains and losses on non-marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized in other income (expense), net. Non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured during the period are classified within Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because we estimate the value based on valuation methods using the observable transaction price at the transaction date and other unobservable inputs including volatility, rights, and obligations of the securities we hold.
Gains and losses on marketable and non-marketable equity securities
Gains and losses reflected in other income (expense), net, for our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are summarized below (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
Net gain (loss) on equity securities sold during the period | $ | 1,458 | | | $ | (301 | )
Net unrealized gain (loss) on equity securities held as of the end of the period(1) | 4,002 | | | 2,950 | 
Total gain (loss) recognized in other income (expense), net | $ | 5,460 | | | $ | 2,649 | 


(1) | Includes net gains of $4.1 billion and $1.8 billion related to non-marketable equity securities for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively.

In the table above, net gain (loss) on equity securities sold during the period reflects the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying value of the equity securities at the beginning of the period or the purchase date, if later. 
Cumulative net gains on equity securities sold during the period, which is summarized in the following table (in millions), represents the total net gains (losses) recognized after the initial purchase date of the equity security. While these net gains may have been reflected in periods prior to the period of sale, we believe they are important supplemental information as they reflect the economic realized gain on the securities sold during the period. Cumulative net gains is calculated as the difference between the sale price and the initial purchase price for the equity security sold during the period.

 | Equity Securities Sold During the Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
Total sale price | $ | 1,965 | | | $ | 3,134
Total initial cost | 515 | | | 858 | 
Cumulative net gains | $ | 1,450 | | | $ | 2,276

64


Alphabet Inc.

Carrying value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities
The carrying value is measured as the total initial cost plus the cumulative net gain (loss). The carrying values for our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are summarized below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2018
 | Marketable Securities | | Non-Marketable Securities | | Total
Total initial cost | $ | 1,168 | | | $ | 8,168 | | $ | 9,336 
Cumulative net gain(1) | 54 | | | 4,107 | | | 4,161
Carrying value | $ | 1,222 | | | $ | 12,275 | | $ | 13,497


(1) | Non-marketable securities cumulative net gain is comprised of $4.3 billion unrealized gains and $178 million unrealized losses (including impairment).


 | As of December 31, 2019
 | Marketable Securities | | Non-Marketable Securities | | Total
Total initial cost | $ | 1,935 | | | $ | 8,297 | | $ | 10,232
Cumulative net gain(1) | 1,361 | | | 3,056 | | | 4,417
Carrying value | $ | 3,296 | | | $ | 11,353 | | $ | 14,649


(1) | Non-marketable securities cumulative net gain is comprised of $3.5 billion unrealized gains and $445 million unrealized losses (including impairment).

Marketable equity securities
The following table summarizes marketable equity securities measured at fair value by significant investment categories as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2018 | | As of December 31, 2019
 | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | MarketableSecurities | | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Level 1: | | | | | | | 
Money market funds | $ | 3,493 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 4,604 | $ | 0 
Marketable equity securities(1) | 0 | | | 994 | | | 0 | | 3,046
 | 3,493 | | | 994 | | | 4,604 | | 3,046
Level 2: | | | | | | | 
Mutual funds | 0 | | | 228 | | | 0 | | 250 
Total | $ | 3,493 | | | $ | 1,222 | | $ | 4,604 | $ | 3,296


(1) | The balance as of December 31, 2019 includes investments that were reclassified from non-marketable equity securities following the initial public offering of the issuers.

Non-marketable equity securities
The following is a summary of unrealized gains and losses recorded in other income (expense), net, and included as adjustments to the carrying value of non-marketable equity securities (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
Unrealized gains | $ | 4,285 | | | $ | 2,163
Unrealized losses (including impairment) | (178 | ) | | (372 | )
Total unrealized gain (loss) for non-marketable equity securities | $ | 4,107 | | | $ | 1,791

During the year ended December 31, 2019, included in the $11.4 billion of non-marketable equity securities, $7.6 billion were measured at fair value primarily based on observable market transactions, resulting in a net unrealized gain of $1.8 billion.

Alphabet Inc.

Equity securities accounted for under the Equity Method
Equity securities accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of approximately $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019. Our share of gains and losses including impairment are included as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 7 for further details on other income (expense), net.
Derivative Financial Instruments
We classify our foreign currency and interest rate derivative contracts primarily within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments.
We recognize derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. We record changes in the fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of the derivatives in the Consolidated Statements of Income as either other income (expense), net, or revenues, or in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in AOCI, as discussed below. Any components excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in the same income statement line as the hedged item.
We enter into foreign currency contracts with financial institutions to reduce the risk that our cash flows, earnings, and investment in foreign subsidiaries will be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We also use interest rate derivative contracts to hedge interest rate exposures on our fixed income securities and debt issuances. Our program is not used for trading or speculative purposes.
We enter into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. To further reduce credit risk, we enter into collateral security arrangements under which the counterparty is required to provide collateral when the net fair value of certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. We can take possession of the collateral in the event of counterparty default. As of December 31, 2018 and 2019, we received cash collateral related to the derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements of $327 million and $252 million, respectively, which was included in other current assets.
Cash Flow Hedges
We use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options), designated as cash flow hedges to hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The notional principal of these contracts was approximately $11.8 billion and $13.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. These contracts have maturities of 24 months or less.
For forwards and option contracts, we exclude the change in the forward points and time value from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. The initial value of the excluded component is amortized on a straight-line basis over the life of the hedging instrument and recognized in revenues. The difference between fair value changes of the excluded component and the amount amortized to revenues is recorded in AOCI. We reflect the gains or losses of a cash flow hedge included in our hedge effective assessment as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassify these gains and losses to revenues when the hedged transactions are recorded. If the hedged transactions become probable of not occurring, the corresponding amounts in AOCI are immediately reclassified to other income (expense), net.
As of December 31, 2019, the net accumulated loss on our foreign currency cash flow hedges before tax effect was $82 million, of which $82 million is expected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings within the next 12 months.
Fair Value Hedges
We use forward contracts designated as fair value hedges to hedge foreign currency risks for our investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We exclude changes in forward points for the forward contracts from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. We recognize changes in the excluded component in other income (expense), net. The notional principal of these contracts was $2.0 billion and $455 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively.
Gains and losses on these forward contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net, along with the offsetting gains and losses of the related hedged items.
Net Investment Hedges
We use forward contracts designated as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to our investment in foreign subsidiaries. We exclude changes in forward points for the forward contracts from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. We recognize changes in the excluded component in other income (expense), 

Alphabet Inc.

net. The notional principal of these contracts was $6.7 billion and $9.3 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. 
Gains and losses on these forward contracts are recognized in AOCI as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment.
Other Derivatives
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward contracts that we use to hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of a subsidiary. We recognize gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs in other income (expense), net, along with the foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities. The notional principal of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts was $20.1 billion and $43.5 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively.
The fair values of our outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | | As of December 31, 2018 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other current and non-current assets | $ | 459 | | $ | 54 | $ | 513
Total | | $ | 459 | | $ | 54 | $ | 513
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 5 | | $ | 228 | $ | 233
Total | | $ | 5 | | $ | 228 | $ | 233


 | | As of December 31, 2019 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other current and non-current assets | $ | 91 | | $ | 253 | $ | 344
Total | | $ | 91 | | $ | 253 | $ | 344
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 173 | | $ | 196 | $ | 369
Total | | $ | 173 | | $ | 196 | $ | 369

67


Alphabet Inc.

The gains (losses) on derivatives in cash flow hedging and net investment hedging relationships recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI) are summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in OCIon Derivatives Before Tax Effect
 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | $ | (955 | ) | | $ | 332 | | | $ | 38 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 26 | | | (14 | )
Derivatives in Net Investment Hedging Relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 136 | | | 131 | 
Total | $ | (955 | ) | | $ | 494 | | | $ | 155


68


Alphabet Inc.

The effect of derivative instruments on income is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income
 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019 
 | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net
Total amounts presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income in which the effects of cash flow and fair value hedges are recorded | $ | 110,855 | | | $ | 1,015 | | $ | 136,819 | | $ | 7,389 | | $ | 161,857 | $ | 5,394 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount of gains (losses) reclassified from AOCI to income | $ | (169 | ) | | $ | 0 | | $ | (139 | ) | $ | 0 | | $ | 367 | $ | 0 | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness recognized in earnings based on an amortization approach | 0 | | | | | | | | 0 | | 88 | | 0 | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 83 | | | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Fair Value Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Hedged items | 0 | | | 197 | | | 0 | | (96 | ) | 0 | | (19 | )
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments | 0 | | | (197 | ) | | 0 | | 96 | | 0 | | 19 | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 23 | | | 0 | | 37 | | 0 | | 25 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Net Investment Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 78 | | 0 | | 243 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments | 0 | | | (230 | ) | | 0 | | 54 | | 0 | | (413 | )
Total gains (losses) | $ | (169 | ) | | $ | (124 | ) | $ | (138 | ) | $ | 169 | | $ | 455 | $ | (145 | )

Offsetting of Derivatives
We present our forwards and purchased options at gross fair values in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For foreign currency collars, we present at net fair values where both purchased and written options are with the same counterparty. Our master netting and other similar arrangements allow net settlements under certain conditions. As of December 31, 2018 and 2019, information related to these offsetting arrangements were as follows (in millions):
69


Alphabet Inc.

Offsetting of Assets

 | As of December 31, 2018 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 569 | | $ | (56 | ) | $ | 513 | | $ | (90 | ) | (1) | $ | (307 | ) | $ | (14 | ) | $ | 102
 | As of December 31, 2019 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 365 | | $ | (21 | ) | $ | 344 | | $ | (88 | ) | (1) | $ | (234 | ) | $ | 0 | | $ | 22 


(1) | The balances as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 were related to derivative liabilities which are allowed to be net settled against derivative assets in accordance with our master netting agreements.

Offsetting of Liabilities

 | As of December 31, 2018 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 289 | | $ | (56 | ) | $ | 233 | | $ | (90 | ) | (2) | $ | 0 | $ | 0 | $ | 143
 | As of December 31, 2019 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 390 | | $ | (21 | ) | $ | 369 | | $ | (88 | ) | (2) | $ | 0 | $ | 0 | $ | 281


(2) | The balances as of December 31, 2018 and 2019 were related to derivative assets which are allowed to be net settled against derivative liabilities in accordance with our master netting agreements.

Note 4. Leases
We have entered into operating and finance lease agreements primarily for data centers, land and offices throughout the world with lease periods expiring between 2020 and 2063. 
Components of operating lease expense were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended 
 | December 31, 2019
Operating lease cost | $ | 1,820
Variable lease cost | 541 | 
Total operating lease cost | $ | 2,361


70


Alphabet Inc.

Supplemental information related to operating leases was as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended 
 | December 31, 2019
Cash payments for operating leases | $ | 1,661
New operating lease assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities | $ | 4,391

As of December 31, 2019, our operating leases had a weighted average remaining lease term of 10 years and a weighted average discount rate of 2.8%. Future lease payments under operating leases as of December 31, 2019 were as follows (in millions):

2020 | $ | 1,757 
2021 | 1,845 | 
2022 | 1,680 | 
2023 | 1,508 | 
2024 | 1,301 | 
Thereafter | 5,763 | 
Total future lease payments | 13,854 | 
Less imputed interest | (2,441 | ) 
Total lease liability balance | $ | 11,413

As of December 31, 2019, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future lease payments of $7.4 billion, excluding purchase options, that are not yet recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between 2020 and 2026 with non-cancelable lease terms of 1 to 25 years.
Supplemental Information for Comparative Periods
As of December 31, 2018, prior to the adoption of Topic 842, future minimum payments under operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year, net of sublease income amounts, were as follows (in millions):

 | Operating Leases(1) | | Sub-lease Income | | Net Operating Leases
2019 | $ | 1,319 | | | $ | 16 | | $ | 1,303 
2020 | 1,397 | | | 13 | | | 1,384
2021 | 1,337 | | | 10 | | | 1,327
2022 | 1,153 | | | 8 | | | 1,145
2023 | 980 | | | 3 | | | 977 
Thereafter | 3,916 | | | 5 | | | 3,911
Total minimum payments | $ | 10,102 | | | $ | 55 | | $ | 10,047


(1) | Includes future minimum payments for leases which have not yet commenced.

Rent expense under operating leases was $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2017, and 2018, respectively.
Note 5. Variable Interest Entities (VIEs)
Consolidated VIEs
We consolidate VIEs in which we hold a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. We are the primary beneficiary because we have the power to direct activities that most significantly affect their economic performance and have the obligation to absorb the majority of their losses or benefits. The results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are included in our consolidated financial statements.
 For certain consolidated VIEs, their assets are not available to us and their creditors do not have recourse to us. As of December 31, 2018 and 2019, assets that can only be used to settle obligations of these VIEs were $2.4 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, and the liabilities for which creditors only have recourse to the VIEs were $909 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. 

Alphabet Inc.

Calico
Calico is a life science company with a mission to harness advanced technologies to increase our understanding of the biology that controls lifespan. 
In September 2014, AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) and Calico entered into a research and development collaboration agreement intended to help both companies discover, develop, and bring to market new therapies for patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer. In the second quarter of 2018, AbbVie and Calico amended the collaboration agreement resulting in an increase in total commitments. As of December 31, 2019, AbbVie has contributed $1,250 million to fund the collaboration pursuant to the agreement. As of December 31, 2019, Calico has contributed $500 million and has committed up to an additional $750 million.
Calico has used its scientific expertise to establish a world-class research and development facility, with a focus on drug discovery and early drug development; and AbbVie provides scientific and clinical development support and its commercial expertise to bring new discoveries to market. Both companies share costs and profits for projects covered under this agreement equally. AbbVie's contribution has been recorded as a liability on Calico's financial statements, which is reduced and reflected as a reduction to research and development expense as eligible research and development costs are incurred by Calico. 
As of December 31, 2019, we have contributed $480 million to Calico in exchange for Calico convertible preferred units and are committed to fund up to an additional $750 million on an as-needed basis and subject to certain conditions.
Verily
Verily is a life science and healthcare company with a mission to make the world's health data useful so that people enjoy healthier lives. In December 2018, Verily received $900 million in cash from a $1.0 billion investment round. The remaining $100 million was received in the first quarter of 2019. As of December 31, 2019, Verily has received an aggregate amount of $1.8 billion from sales of equity securities to external investors. These transactions were accounted for as equity transactions and no gain or loss was recognized.
In the fourth quarter of 2019, Verily obtained a controlling financial interest in Onduo, an existing equity method investment. The transaction resulted in a $357 million gain from the revaluation of the previously held economic interest, which was recognized in other income (expense), net.
Unconsolidated VIEs
Certain of our non-marketable investments, including certain renewable energy investments accounted for under the equity method and certain other investments in private companies, are VIEs. The renewable energy entities' activities involve power generation using renewable sources. Private companies that we invest in are primarily early stage companies.
We have determined that the governance structures of these entities do not allow us to direct the activities that would significantly affect their economic performance. Therefore, we do not consolidate these VIEs in our consolidated financial statements.
The maximum exposure of these unconsolidated VIEs is generally based on the current carrying value of the investments and any future funding commitments. We have determined that the single source of our exposure to these VIEs is our capital investments in them. The carrying value and maximum exposure of these unconsolidated VIEs were not material as of December 31, 2018 and 2019.
Note 6. Debt
Short-Term Debt
We have a debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2018 and 2019. 
Long-Term Debt
Google issued $3.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in three tranches (collectively, 2011 Notes) in May 2011, due in 2014, 2016, and 2021, as well as $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes (2014 Notes) in February 2014 due in 2024. 
In April 2016, we completed an exchange offer with eligible holders of Google’s 2011 Notes due 2021 and 2014 Notes due 2024 (collectively, the Google Notes). An aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.7 billion of the Google Notes was exchanged for approximately $1.7 billion of Alphabet notes with identical interest rate and maturity. 

Alphabet Inc.

Because the exchange was between a parent and the subsidiary company and for substantially identical notes, the change was treated as a debt modification for accounting purposes with no gain or loss recognized. 
In August 2016, Alphabet issued $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes (2016 Notes) due 2026. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2016 Notes were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of outstanding commercial paper. The Alphabet notes due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 rank equally with each other and are structurally subordinate to the outstanding Google Notes.
 The total outstanding long-term debt is summarized below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2018 | | As ofDecember 31, 2019
3.625% Notes due on May 19, 2021 | $ | 1,000 | | | $ | 1,000
3.375% Notes due on February 25, 2024 | 1,000 | | | 1,000 | 
1.998% Notes due on August 15, 2026 | 2,000 | | | 2,000 | 
Unamortized discount for the Notes above | (50 | ) | | (42 | )
Subtotal(1) | 3,950 | | | 3,958 | 
Total future finance lease payments | 62 | | | 685 | 
Less: imputed interest for finance leases | 0 | | | (89 | )
Total long-term debt | $ | 4,012 | | | $ | 4,554


(1) | Includes the outstanding (and unexchanged) Google Notes issued in 2011 and 2014 and the Alphabet notes exchanged in 2016.

The effective interest yields based on proceeds received from the outstanding notes due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 were 3.734%, 3.377%, and 2.231%, respectively, with interest payable semi-annually. We may redeem these notes at any time in whole or in part at specified redemption prices. The total estimated fair value of all outstanding notes was approximately $3.9 billion and $4.1 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. The fair value was determined based on observable market prices of identical instruments in less active markets and is categorized accordingly as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
As of December 31, 2019, the aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt including long-term finance leases for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (in millions):

2020 | $ | 0 
2021 | 1,046 | 
2022 | 46 | 
2023 | 46 | 
2024 | 1,047 | 
Thereafter | 2,500 | 
Total | $ | 4,685

Credit Facility
As of December 31, 2019, we have $4.0 billion of revolving credit facilities which expire in July 2023. The interest rate for the credit facilities is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. No amounts were outstanding under the credit facilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2019.
73


Alphabet Inc.

Note 7. Supplemental Financial Statement Information
Property and Equipment, Net
Property and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2018 | | As ofDecember 31, 2019
Land and buildings | $ | 30,179 | | | $ | 39,865
Information technology assets | 30,119 | | | 36,840 | 
Construction in progress | 16,838 | | | 21,036 | 
Leasehold improvements | 5,310 | | | 6,310 | 
Furniture and fixtures | 61 | | | 156 | 
Property and equipment, gross | 82,507 | | | 104,207 | 
Less: accumulated depreciation | (22,788 | ) | | (30,561 | )
Property and equipment, net | $ | 59,719 | | | $ | 73,646

As of December 31, 2018 and 2019, information technology assets and land and buildings under finance leases with a cost basis of $648 million and $1.6 billion, respectively, were included in property and equipment.
Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2018 | | As ofDecember 31, 2019
European Commission fines(1) | $ | 7,754 | | | $ | 9,405 
Accrued customer liabilities | 1,810 | | | 2,245 | 
Accrued purchases of property and equipment | 1,603 | | | 2,411 | 
Current operating lease liabilities | 0 | | | 1,199 | 
Other accrued expenses and current liabilities | 5,791 | | | 7,807 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | $ | 16,958 | | | $ | 23,067


(1) | Includes the effects of foreign exchange and interest. See Note 10 for further details.

74


Alphabet Inc.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The components of AOCI, net of tax, were as follows (in millions):

 | Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Investments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges | | Total
Balance as of December 31, 2016 | $ | (2,646 | ) | | $ | (179 | ) | | $ | 423 | | $ | (2,402 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | 1,543 | | | 307 | | | (638 | ) | | 1,212 | 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 105 | | | 93 | | | 198 | 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 1,543 | | | 412 | | | (545 | ) | | 1,410 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2017 | (1,103 | ) | | 233 | | | (122 | ) | | (992 | )
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | (98 | ) | | 0 | | | (98 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (781 | ) | | 88 | | | 264 | | | (429 | )
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | 26 | | | 26 | 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (911 | ) | | 98 | | | (813 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (781 | ) | | (823 | ) | | 388 | | | (1,216 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2018 | (1,884 | ) | | (688 | ) | | 266 | | | (2,306 | )
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 0 | | | (30 | ) | | (30 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (119 | ) | | 1,611 | | | 36 | | | 1,528 | 
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | (14 | ) | | (14 | )
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (111 | ) | | (299 | ) | | (410 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (119 | ) | | 1,500 | | | (277 | ) | | 1,104 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2019 | $ | (2,003 | ) | | $ | 812 | | | $ | (41 | ) | $ | (1,232 | )

The effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI were as follows (in millions):

 | | Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI to the Consolidated Statements of Income
 | | Year Ended December 31, 
AOCI Components | Location | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments | | | | 
 | Other income (expense), net | $ | (105 | ) | | $ | 1,190 | | | $ | 149
 | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | 0 | | | (279 | ) | | (38 | )
 | Net of tax | (105 | ) | | 911 | | | 111 | 
Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Revenue | (169 | ) | | (139 | ) | | 367 | 
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | | | | | | | 6 | 
 | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | 71 | | | 35 | | | (74 | )
 | Net of tax | (93 | ) | | (98 | ) | | 299 | 
Total amount reclassified, net of tax | | $ | (198 | ) | | $ | 813 | | | $ | 410

75


Alphabet Inc.

Other Income (Expense), Net 
The components of other income (expense), net, were as follows (in millions): 

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Interest income | $ | 1,312 | | | $ | 1,878 | | | $ | 2,427
Interest expense(1) | (109 | ) | | (114 | ) | | (100 | )
Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net (2) | (121 | ) | | (80 | ) | | 103 | 
Gain (loss) on debt securities, net(3) | (110 | ) | | 1,190 | | | 149 | 
Gain (loss) on equity securities, net | 73 | | | 5,460 | | | 2,649 | 
Performance fees(4) | (32 | ) | | (1,203 | ) | | (326 | )
Gain (loss) and impairment from equity method investments, net | (156 | ) | | (120 | ) | | 390 | 
Other | 158 | | | 378 | | | 102 | 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 1,015 | | | $ | 7,389 | | | $ | 5,394


(1) | Interest expense is net of interest capitalized of $48 million, $92 million, and $167 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018, and 2019, respectively.


(2) | Our foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net, are related to the option premium costs and forwards points for our foreign currency hedging contracts, our foreign exchange transaction gains and losses from the conversion of the transaction currency to the functional currency, offset by the foreign currency hedging contract losses and gains. The net foreign currency transaction losses were $226 million, $195 million, and $166 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018, and 2019, respectively.


(3) | During the year ended December 31, 2018, the terms of a non-marketable debt security were modified resulting in an unrealized $1.3 billion gain.


(4) | Performance fees were reclassified for prior periods from general and administrative expenses to other income (expense), net to conform with current period presentation.

Note 8. Acquisitions
2019 Acquisitions 
Looker
In December 2019, we obtained all regulatory clearances necessary to close the acquisition of Looker, a unified platform for business intelligence, data applications and embedded analytics for $2.4 billion, with integration pending approval from a UK regulatory review. The addition of Looker to Google Cloud is expected to help customers accelerate how they analyze data, deliver business intelligence, and build data-driven applications.
The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed was recorded based on a preliminary valuation and our estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the measurement period. The $2.4 billion purchase price includes our previously held equity interest and excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. In aggregate, $91 million was cash acquired, $290 million was attributed to intangible assets, $1.9 billion to goodwill and $48 million to net assets acquired. Goodwill was recorded in the Google segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Other Acquisitions
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $1.0 billion. In aggregate, $28 million was cash acquired, $282 million was attributed to intangible assets, $904 million to goodwill and $185 million to net liabilities assumed. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings and expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. 
Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions, including Looker, have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate.
For all intangible assets acquired and purchased during the year ended December 31, 2019, patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of 3.5 years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of 6.3 years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of 4.5 years.
Pending Acquisition of Fitbit
In November 2019, we entered into an agreement to acquire Fitbit, a leading wearables brand, for $7.35 per share, representing a total purchase price of approximately $2.1 billion as of the date of the agreement. The acquisition 
76


Alphabet Inc.

of Fitbit is expected to be completed in 2020, subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals. Upon the close of the acquisition, Fitbit will be part of Google segment.
Note 9. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019 were as follows (in millions):

 | Google | | Other Bets | | Total Consolidated
Balance as of December 31, 2017 | $ | 16,295 | | | $ | 452 | | | $ | 16,747
Acquisitions | 1,227 | | | 0 | | | 1,227 | 
Transfers | 80 | | | (80 | ) | | 0 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | (81 | ) | | (5 | ) | | (86 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2018 | 17,521 | | | 367 | | | 17,888 | 
Acquisitions | 2,353 | | | 475 | | | 2,828 | 
Transfers | 9 | | | (9 | ) | | 0 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | 38 | | | (130 | ) | | (92 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2019 | $ | 19,921 | | | $ | 703 | | | $ | 20,624

Other Intangible Assets
Information regarding purchased intangible assets were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2018
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingAmount
Patents and developed technology | $ | 5,125 | | | $ | 3,394 | | $ | 1,731
Customer relationships | 349 | | | 308 | | | 41 
Trade names and other | 703 | | | 255 | | | 448
Total | $ | 6,177 | | | $ | 3,957 | | $ | 2,220


 | As of December 31, 2019
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingValue
Patents and developed technology | $ | 4,972 | | | $ | 3,570 | | $ | 1,402
Customer relationships | 254 | | | 30 | | | 224
Trade names and other | 703 | | | 350 | | | 353
Total | $ | 5,929 | | | $ | 3,950 | | $ | 1,979

Patents and developed technology, customer relationships, and trade names and other have weighted-average remaining useful lives of 2.3 years, 5.6 years, and 3.0 years, respectively. 
Amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets was $796 million, $865 million, and $795 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018, and 2019, respectively.
77


Alphabet Inc.

As of December 31, 2019, expected amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets for each of the next five years and thereafter is as follows (in millions):

2020 | $ | 749 
2021 | 665 | 
2022 | 317 | 
2023 | 57 | 
2024 | 45 | 
Thereafter | 146 | 
 | $ | 1,979

Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies
Purchase Obligations
As of December 31, 2019, we had $5.7 billion of other non-cancelable contractual obligations, primarily related to data center operations and build-outs, digital media content licensing, and purchases of inventory.
Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, to facilitate transactions in our services and products, we indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network Members, customers of Google Cloud offerings, and lessors with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.
It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, we have a limited history of prior indemnification claims and the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 
As of December 31, 2019, we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible. 
Legal Matters
Antitrust Investigations
On November 30, 2010, the EC's Directorate General for Competition opened an investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against us.
On June 27, 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017) fine. On September 11, 2017, we appealed the EC decision and on September 27, 2017, we implemented product changes to bring shopping ads into compliance with the EC's decision. We recognized a charge of $2.7 billion for the fine in the second quarter of 2017.
On July 18, 2018, the EC announced its decision that certain provisions in Google’s Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018) fine and directed the termination of the conduct at issue. On October 9, 2018, we appealed the EC decision. On October 29, 2018, we implemented changes to certain of our Android distribution practices. We recognized a charge of $5.1 billion for the fine in the second quarter of 2018. 
On March 20, 2019, the EC announced its decision that certain contractual provisions in agreements that Google had with AdSense for Search partners infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a fine of €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019) and directed actions related to AdSense for Search agreements, which we implemented prior to the decision. On June 4, 2019, we appealed the EC decision. We recognized a charge of $1.7 billion for the fine in the first quarter of 2019. 

Alphabet Inc.

While each EC decision is under appeal, we included the fines in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines.
From time to time we are subject to formal and informal inquiries and investigations by competition authorities in the United States, Europe, and other jurisdictions. For example, in August 2019, we began receiving civil investigative demands from the U.S. Department of Justice requesting information and documents relating to our prior antitrust investigations and certain of our business practices. Attorneys general from 51 U.S. states and territories have also opened antitrust investigations into certain of our business practices. We continue to cooperate with federal and state regulators in the United States, and other regulators around the world.
Patent and Intellectual Property Claims
We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe others' intellectual property rights. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services. As a result, we may have to change our business practices, and develop non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. In addition, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) has increasingly become an important forum to litigate intellectual property disputes because an ultimate loss in an ITC action can result in a prohibition on importing infringing products into the U.S. Because the U.S. is an important market, a prohibition on importation could have an adverse effect on us, including preventing us from importing many important products into the U.S. or necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features of our products.
Furthermore, many of our agreements with our customers and partners require us to indemnify them against certain intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. In addition, our customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business.
In 2010, Oracle America, Inc. (Oracle) brought a copyright lawsuit against Google in the Northern District of California, alleging that Google's Android operating system infringes Oracle's copyrights related to certain Java application programming interfaces. After trial, final judgment was entered by the district court in favor of Google on June 8, 2016, and the court decided post-trial motions in favor of Google. Oracle appealed and on March 27, 2018, the appeals court reversed and remanded the case for a trial on damages. On May 29, 2018, we filed a petition for a rehearing at the Federal Circuit, and on August 28, 2018, the Federal Circuit denied the petition. On January 24, 2019, we filed a petition to the Supreme Court of the United States to review this case. On April 29, 2019, the Supreme Court requested the views of the Solicitor General regarding our petition. On September 27, 2019, the Solicitor General recommended denying our petition, and we provided our response on October 16, 2019. On November 15, 2019, the Supreme Court granted our petition and made a decision to review the case. If the Supreme Court does not rule in our favor, the case will be remanded to the district court for further determination of the remaining issues in the case, including damages, if any. We believe this lawsuit is without merit and are defending ourselves vigorously. Given the nature of this case, we are unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, if any, arising from this matter.
Other
We are also regularly subject to claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. Such claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings could result in fines, civil or criminal penalties, or other adverse consequences.
Certain of these outstanding matters include speculative, substantial or indeterminate monetary amounts. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. We evaluate developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both likelihood of there being and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters.
With respect to our outstanding matters, based on our current knowledge, we believe that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss will not, either individually or in aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, 

Alphabet Inc.

consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, the outcome of such matters is inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties.
We expense legal fees in the period in which they are incurred.
Non-Income Taxes
We are under audit by various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to non-income tax matters. The subject matter of non-income tax audits primarily arises from disputes on the tax treatment and tax rate applied to the sale of our products and services in these jurisdictions and the tax treatment of certain employee benefits. We accrue non-income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. We believe these matters are without merit and we are defending ourselves vigorously. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and judicial process in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome may be materially different from our expectations.
For information regarding income tax contingencies, see Note 14.
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity
Convertible Preferred Stock
Our board of directors has authorized 100 million shares of convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2018 and 2019, no shares were issued or outstanding.
Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock
Our board of directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock.
Share Repurchases
In January 2018, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $8.6 billion of its Class C capital stock. In January and July 2019, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $12.5 billion and $25.0 billion of its Class C capital stock, respectively. Share repurchases pursuant to the January 2018 and January 2019 authorizations were completed in 2019. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. 
During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019, we repurchased and subsequently retired 8.2 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $9.1 billion and 15.3 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $18.4 billion, respectively.
Note 12. Net Income Per Share
We compute net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares and the effect of potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist of restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. The computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A common stock assumes the conversion of Class B common stock, while the diluted net income per share of Class B common stock does not assume the conversion of those shares.
The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, of the holders of our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Furthermore, there are a number of safeguards built into our certificate of incorporation, as well as Delaware law, which preclude our board of directors from declaring or paying unequal per share dividends on our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments to our certificate of incorporation which would have the effect of adversely altering the rights, powers, or preferences of a given class of stock must be approved by the class of stock adversely 
80


Alphabet Inc.

affected by the proposed amendment. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that before any such amendment may be put to a stockholder vote, it must be approved by the unanimous consent of our board of directors. As a result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based on the contractual participation rights of the Class A and Class B common shares and Class C capital stock as if the earnings for the year had been distributed. As the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated on a proportionate basis. 
In the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, the net income per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock because the holders of each class are entitled to equal per share dividends or distributions in liquidation in accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Alphabet Inc.
The following tables set forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock (in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 5,438 | | | $ | 862 | | $ | 6,362
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 297,604 | | | 47,146 | | | 348,151
Basic net income per share | $ | 18.27 | | | $ | 18.27 | | $ | 18.27
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 5,438 | | | $ | 862 | | $ | 6,362
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 862 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (74 | ) | | (14 | ) | | 74 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 6,226 | | | $ | 848 | | $ | 6,436
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 297,604 | | | 47,146 | | | 348,151
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 47,146 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 1,192 | | | 0 | | | 9,491 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 345,942 | | | 47,146 | | | 357,642
Diluted net income per share | $ | 18.00 | | | $ | 18.00 | | $ | 18.00

81


Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 13,200 | | | $ | 2,072 | | $ | 15,464
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 298,548 | | | 46,864 | | | 349,728
Basic net income per share | $ | 44.22 | | | $ | 44.22 | | $ | 44.22 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 13,200 | | | $ | 2,072 | | $ | 15,464
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 2,072 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (146 | ) | | (24 | ) | | 146 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 15,126 | | | $ | 2,048 | | $ | 15,610
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 298,548 | | | 46,864 | | | 349,728
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 46,864 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 689 | | | 0 | | | 7,456 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 346,101 | | | 46,864 | | | 357,184
Diluted net income per share | $ | 43.70 | | | $ | 43.70 | | $ | 43.70 


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2019 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 14,846 | | | $ | 2,307 | | $ | 17,190
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 299,402 | | | 46,527 | | | 346,667
Basic net income per share | $ | 49.59 | | | $ | 49.59 | | $ | 49.59 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 14,846 | | | $ | 2,307 | | $ | 17,190
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 2,307 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (126 | ) | | (20 | ) | | 126 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 17,027 | | | $ | 2,287 | | $ | 17,316
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 299,402 | | | 46,527 | | | 346,667
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 46,527 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 413 | | | 0 | | | 5,547 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 346,342 | | | 46,527 | | | 352,214
Diluted net income per share | $ | 49.16 | | | $ | 49.16 | | $ | 49.16 

82


Alphabet Inc.

Note 13. Compensation Plans
Stock Plans
Under our 2012 Stock Plan, RSUs or stock options may be granted. An RSU award is an agreement to issue shares of our publicly traded stock at the time the award vests. Incentive and non-qualified stock options, or rights to purchase common stock, are generally granted for a term of 10 years. RSUs granted to participants under the 2012 Stock Plan generally vest over four years contingent upon employment or service with us on the vesting date.
As of December 31, 2019, there were 37,982,435 shares of stock reserved for future issuance under our Stock Plan.
Additionally, we have stock-based awards that may be settled in the stock of certain of our Other Bets.
Stock-Based Compensation
For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, total stock-based compensation expense was $7.9 billion, $10.0 billion and $11.7 billion, including amounts associated with awards we expect to settle in Alphabet stock of $7.7 billion, $9.4 billion, and $10.8 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, we recognized tax benefits on total stock-based compensation expense, which are reflected in the provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income, of $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion, and $1.8 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, tax benefit realized related to awards vested or exercised during the period was $2.7 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. These amounts do not include the indirect effects of stock-based awards, which primarily relate to the research and development tax credit.
Stock-Based Award Activities
The following table summarizes the activities for our unvested RSUs in Alphabet stock for the year ended December 31, 2019:

 | Unvested Restricted Stock Units
 | Number of Shares | | Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Value
Unvested as of December 31, 2018 | 18,467,678 | | | $ | 936.96 
Granted | 13,934,041 | | | $ | 1,092.36
Vested | (11,576,766 | ) | | $ | 919.28 
Forfeited/canceled | (1,430,717 | ) | | $ | 990.56 
Unvested as of December 31, 2019 | 19,394,236 | | | $ | 1,055.22

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, was $845.06 and $1,095.89, respectively. Total fair value of RSUs, as of their respective vesting dates, during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018, and 2019 were $11.3 billion, $14.1 billion, and $15.2 billion, respectively.
As of December 31, 2019, there was $19.1 billion of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested employee RSUs. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. 
401(k) Plans
We have two 401(k) Savings Plans that qualify as deferred salary arrangements under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under these 401(k) Plans, matching contributions are based upon the amount of the employees’ contributions subject to certain limitations. We recognized expense of approximately $448 million, $691 million, and $724 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018, and 2019, respectively.
83


Alphabet Inc.

Note 14. Income Taxes
Income from continuing operations before income taxes consists of the following (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Domestic operations | $ | 10,680 | | | $ | 15,779 | | $ | 16,426
Foreign operations | 16,513 | | | 19,134 | | | 23,199
Total | $ | 27,193 | | | $ | 34,913 | | $ | 39,625

The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Current: | | | | | 
Federal and state | $ | 12,608 | | | $ | 2,153 | | | $ | 2,424
Foreign | 1,746 | | | 1,251 | | | 2,713 | 
Total | 14,354 | | | 3,404 | | | 5,137 | 
Deferred: | | | | | 
Federal and state | 220 | | | 907 | | | 286 | 
Foreign | (43 | ) | | (134 | ) | | (141 | )
Total | 177 | | | 773 | | | 145 | 
Provision for income taxes | $ | 14,531 | | | $ | 4,177 | | | $ | 5,282

The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and created new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments.
Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As we collected and prepared necessary data, and interpreted the additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we made adjustments, over the course of 2018, to the provisional amounts including refinements to deferred taxes. The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act was completed as of December 31, 2018.
Transition tax
The Tax Act required us to pay U.S. income taxes on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of foreign cash and certain other net current assets and 8% on the remaining earnings. We recorded a provisional amount for our transitional tax liability and income tax expense of $10.2 billion as of December 31, 2017. Subsequent adjustments in 2018 and 2019 were not material.
Deferred tax effects
Due to the change in the statutory tax rate from the Tax Act, we remeasured our deferred taxes as of December 31, 2017 to reflect the reduced rate that will apply in future periods when these deferred taxes are settled or realized. We recognized a deferred tax benefit of $376 million to reflect the reduced U.S. tax rate and other effects of the Tax Act as of December 31, 2017.

Alphabet Inc.

The reconciliation of federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate is as follows:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
U.S. federal statutory tax rate | 35.0 | % | | 21.0 | % | 21.0 | %
Foreign income taxed at different rates | (14.2 | ) | | (4.9 | ) | (5.6 | )
Effect of the Tax Act | | | | | | | 
Transition tax | 37.6 | | | (0.1 | ) | (0.6 | )
Deferred tax effects | (1.4 | ) | | (1.2 | ) | 0.0 | 
Federal research credit | (1.8 | ) | | (2.4 | ) | (2.5 | )
Stock-based compensation expense | (4.5 | ) | | (2.2 | ) | (0.7 | )
European Commission fines | 3.5 | | | 3.1 | | 1.0 | 
Deferred tax asset valuation allowance | 0.9 | | | (2.0 | ) | 0.0 | 
State and local income taxes | 0.1 | | | (0.4 | ) | 1.1 | 
Other adjustments | (1.8 | ) | | 1.1 | | (0.4 | )
Effective tax rate | 53.4 | % | | 12.0 | % | 13.3 | %

Our effective tax rate for each of the years presented was affected by earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions with statutory tax rates lower than the federal statutory tax rate. Substantially all of the income from foreign operations was earned by an Irish subsidiary. Beginning in 2018, earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions are subject to U.S. tax in accordance with the Tax Act.
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court, in an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, invalidated the portion of the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section 482 requiring related-party participants in a cost sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. The U.S. Tax Court issued the final decision on December 28, 2015. As a result of that decision, we recorded a tax benefit related to the anticipated reimbursement of cost share payment for previously shared stock-based compensation costs.
On June 7, 2019, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit overturned the 2015 Tax Court decision in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, and upheld the portion of the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section 482 requiring related-party participants in a cost sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. As a result of the Ninth Circuit court decision, our cumulative net tax benefit of $418 million related to previously shared stock-based compensation costs was reversed in the year ended December 31, 2019.

Alphabet Inc.

Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2018 | | 2019
Deferred tax assets: | | | 
Stock-based compensation expense | $ | 291 | | | $ | 421 | 
Accrued employee benefits | 387 | | | 463 | 
Accruals and reserves not currently deductible | 902 | | | 1,047 | 
Tax credits | 1,979 | | | 3,264 | 
Basis difference in investment in Arris | 657 | | | 0 | 
Prepaid cost sharing | 597 | | | 0 | 
Net operating losses | 557 | | | 771 | 
Operating leases | 160 | | | 1,876 | 
Other | 21 | | | 390 | 
Total deferred tax assets | 5,551 | | | 8,232 | 
Valuation allowance | (2,817 | ) | | (3,502 | )
Total deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance | 2,734 | | | 4,730 | 
Deferred tax liabilities: | | | 
Property and equipment, net | (1,382 | ) | | (1,798 | )
Renewable energy investments | (500 | ) | | (466 | )
Foreign Earnings | (111 | ) | | (373 | )
Net investment gains | (1,143 | ) | | (1,074 | )
Operating leases | 0 | | | (1,619 | )
Other | (125 | ) | | (380 | )
Total deferred tax liabilities | (3,261 | ) | | (5,710 | )
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) | $ | (527 | ) | | $ | (980 | )

As of December 31, 2019, our federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $1.8 billion, $3.1 billion, and $1.9 billion respectively. If not utilized, the federal and foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2021 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2020. It is more likely than not that certain net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized; therefore, we have recorded a valuation allowance against them. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various annual limitations under the tax laws of the different jurisdictions.
As of December 31, 2019, our California research and development credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $3.0 billion that can be carried over indefinitely. We believe the state tax credit is not likely to be realized.
As of December 31, 2019, we maintained a valuation allowance with respect to California deferred tax assets, certain federal net operating losses, certain state tax credits and certain foreign net operating losses that we believe are not likely to be realized. Due to gains from equity securities recognized, we released the valuation allowance in 2018 against the deferred tax asset for the book-to-tax basis difference in our investments in Arris shares received from the sale of the Motorola Home business to Arris in 2013. We continue to reassess the remaining valuation allowance quarterly and if future evidence allows for a partial or full release of the valuation allowance, a tax benefit will be recorded accordingly. 
86


Alphabet Inc.

Uncertain Tax Positions
The following table summarizes the activity related to our gross unrecognized tax benefits (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Beginning gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 5,393 | | | $ | 4,696 | | | $ | 4,652
Increases related to prior year tax positions | 685 | | | 321 | | | 938 | 
Decreases related to prior year tax positions | (257 | ) | | (623 | ) | | (143 | )
Decreases related to settlement with tax authorities | (1,875 | ) | | (191 | ) | | (2,886 | )
Increases related to current year tax positions | 750 | | | 449 | | | 816 | 
Ending gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 4,696 | | | $ | 4,652 | | | $ | 3,377

The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $4.7 billion, $4.7 billion, and $3.4 billion as of December 31, 2017, 2018, and 2019, respectively, of which, $3.0 billion, $2.9 billion, and $2.3 billion, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate, respectively. The decrease in gross unrecognized tax benefits in 2017 and 2019 was primarily as a result of the resolution of multi-year audits.
As of December 31, 2018 and 2019, we had accrued $490 million and $130 million in interest and penalties in provision for income taxes, respectively.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions, our two major tax jurisdictions are the U.S. federal and Ireland. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS completed its examination through our 2015 tax years; all issues have been concluded and the IRS will commence its examination of our 2016 through 2018 tax returns. We have also received tax assessments in multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. We continue to defend any and all such claims as presented.
The tax years 2011 through 2018 remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits in various other jurisdictions that are not material to our financial statements.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the effect, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
We believe that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management's expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Although the timing of resolution, settlement, and closure of audits is not certain, we do not believe it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months.
Note 15. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas
We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets.
Our reported segments are:

• | Google – Google includes our main products such as ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings and subscription-based products.


• | Other Bets – Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X, among others. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily.

87


Alphabet Inc.

Revenues, cost of revenues, and operating expenses are generally directly attributed to our segments. Inter-segment revenues are not presented separately, as these amounts are immaterial. Our Chief Operating Decision Maker does not evaluate operating segments using asset information.
Information about segments during the periods presented were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Revenues: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 110,547 | | | $ | 136,362 | | $ | 160,743
Other Bets | 477 | | | 595 | | | 659
Hedging gains (losses) | (169 | ) | | (138 | ) | | 455
Total revenues | $ | 110,855 | | | $ | 136,819 | | $ | 161,857


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Operating income (loss): | | | | | 
Google | $ | 32,456 | | | $ | 36,655 | | | $ | 41,673
Other Bets | (2,734 | ) | | (3,358 | ) | | (4,824 | )
Reconciling items(1) | (3,544 | ) | | (5,773 | ) | | (2,618 | )
Total income from operations | $ | 26,178 | | | $ | 27,524 | | | $ | 34,231


(1) | Reconciling items are generally comprised of corporate administrative costs, hedging gains (losses) and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments. Reconciling items include the European Commission fines for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, and a charge from a legal settlement for the year ended December 31, 2019. Performance fees previously included in reconciling items were reclassified for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018 from general and administrative expenses to other income (expense), net to conform with current period presentation. For further information on the reclassification, see Note 1. 


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Capital expenditures: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 12,619 | | | $ | 25,460 | | | $ | 25,251
Other Bets | 493 | | | 181 | | | 281 | 
Reconciling items(2) | 72 | | | (502 | ) | | (1,984 | )
Total capital expenditures as presented on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | $ | 13,184 | | | $ | 25,139 | | | $ | 23,548


(2) | Reconciling items are related to timing differences of payments as segment capital expenditures are on accrual basis while total capital expenditures shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow are on cash basis and other miscellaneous differences.

88


Alphabet Inc.

Stock-based compensation (SBC) and depreciation, amortization, and impairment are included in segment operating income (loss) as shown below (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | | 2019
Stock-based compensation: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 7,168 | | | $ | 8,755 | | $ | 10,185
Other Bets | 363 | | | 489 | | | 474
Reconciling items(3) | 148 | | | 109 | | | 135
Total stock-based compensation(4) | $ | 7,679 | | | $ | 9,353 | | $ | 10,794
Depreciation, amortization, and impairment: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 6,608 | | | $ | 8,708 | | $ | 11,158
Other Bets | 307 | | | 327 | | | 566
Reconciling items(3) | 0 | | | 0 | | | 57 
Total depreciation, amortization, and impairment | $ | 6,915 | | | $ | 9,035 | | $ | 11,781


(3) | Reconciling items relate to corporate administrative and other costs that are not allocated to individual segments.


(4) | For purposes of segment reporting, SBC represents awards that we expect to settle in Alphabet stock.

The following table presents our long-lived assets by geographic area (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2018 | | As ofDecember 31, 2019
Long-lived assets: | | | 
United States | $ | 74,882 | | | $ | 94,907 
International | 22,234 | | | 28,424 | 
Total long-lived assets | $ | 97,116 | | | $ | 123,331

For revenues by geography, see Note 2.

Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 9. | CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A. | CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed at a reasonable assurance level and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We rely extensively on information systems to manage our business and summarize and report operating results. In 2019, we began a multi-year implementation of a new global enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system, which will replace much of our existing core financial systems. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain the Company’s financial records, enhance the flow of financial information, improve data management and provide timely information to the Company’s management team. The implementation is expected to occur in phases over the next several years, with initial changes to our general ledger and consolidated financial reporting to take place in 2020. There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. However, as the phased implementation of the new ERP system continues, we will change our processes and procedures which, in turn, could result in changes to our internal control over financial reporting. As such changes occur, we will evaluate quarterly whether such changes materially affect our internal control over financial reporting. 
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2019. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with our Audit Committee. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs.

ITEM 9B. | OTHER INFORMATION

None.

Alphabet Inc.

PART III

ITEM 10. | DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement for 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 (2020 Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM 11. | EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the 2020 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. | SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the 2020 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. | CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Director Independence” in the 2020 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. | PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in the 2020 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Alphabet Inc.

PART IV

ITEM 15. | EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

We have filed the following documents as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
1. Consolidated Financial Statements

Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 47
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 50
Consolidated Statements of Income | 51
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 52
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 53
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 54
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 55

2. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
The table below details the activity of the allowance for doubtful accounts and sales credits for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 (in millions):

 | Balance atBeginning ofYear | | Additions | Usage | | Balance atEnd of Year
Year ended December 31, 2017 | $ | 467 | | $ | 1,131 | | $ | (924 | ) | $ | 674
Year ended December 31, 2018 | $ | 674 | | $ | 1,115 | | $ | (1,060 | ) | $ | 729
Year ended December 31, 2019 | $ | 729 | | $ | 1,481 | | $ | (1,457 | ) | $ | 753


Note: | Additions to the allowance for doubtful accounts are charged to expense. Additions to the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues.

All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or the required information is otherwise included.
3. Exhibits

ExhibitNumber | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | Date 
2.01 | | Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 2, 2015, by and among Google Inc., the Registrant and Maple Technologies Inc. | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
3.01 | | Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated October 2, 2015 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
3.02 | | Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, dated October 2, 2015 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.01 | | Specimen Class A Common Stock certificate | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.02 | | Specimen Class C Capital Stock certificate | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.03 | | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.04 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Larry Page and certain of his affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date 
4.05 | | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Sergey Brin and certain of his affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.06 | | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Eric E. Schmidt and certain of its affiliates | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.07 | | | Class C Undertaking, dated October 2, 2015, executed by the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.08 | | | Indenture, dated February 12, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209510) | February 12, 2016
4.09 | | | Registrant Registration Rights Agreement dated December 14, 2015 | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209518) | February 12, 2016
4.10 | | | First Supplemental Indenture, dated April 27, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | April 27, 2016 
4.11 | | | Form of the Registrant’s 3.625% Notes due 2021 (included in Exhibit 4.10) | | 
4.12 | | | Form of the Registrant’s 3.375% Notes due 2024 (included in Exhibit 4.10) | | 
4.13 | | | Form of the Registrant’s 1.998% Note due 2026 | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 9, 2016 
4.14 | | * | Description of Registrant’s Securities | | 
10.01 | | u | Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between the Registrant, its affiliates and its directors and officers | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.02 | | u | Letter Agreement, dated April 24, 2019, between Robin L. Washington and Alphabet Inc. | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | April 30, 2019 
10.03 | | u | Letter Agreement, dated December 7, 2019, between Frances H. Arnold and Alphabet Inc. | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | December 9, 2019 
10.04 | | u | Compensation Plan Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.05 | | u | Director Arrangements Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.06 | | u | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.07 | | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan, as amended | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-50726) | June 7, 2011 
10.07.1 | | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Form of Google Stock Option Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | March 30, 2005 
10.07.2 | | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Form of Google Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | March 30, 2005 
10.07.3 | | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Amendment to Stock Option Agreements | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-142243) | April 20, 2007 
10.08 | | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | June 21, 2019 


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date 
10.08.1 | * | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | | 
10.08.2 | * | u | Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Plan - Performance Stock Unit Agreement | | 
10.09 | | u | Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan | Registration Statement on Form S-8(File No. 333-181661) | May 24, 2012 
10.10 | | u | Apigee Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan | Registration Statement on Form S-8(File No. 333-214573) | November 10, 2016
10.10.1 | | u | Apigee Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan - Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-214573) | November 10, 2016
14.01 | | | Code of Conduct of the Registrant as amended on September 21, 2017 | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 001-37580) | February 6, 2018 
21.01 | | * | Subsidiaries of the Registrant | | 
23.01 | | * | Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | | 
24.01 | | * | Power of Attorney (incorporated by reference to the signature page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) | | 
31.01 | | * | Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
31.02 | | * | Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
32.01 | | ‡ | Certifications of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | 
99.01 | | | EC AdSense for Search Decision | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | March 20, 2019 
99.02 | | | Press Release regarding Alphabet Management Change | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | December 4, 2019 
101.INS | | * | Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document. | | 
101.SCH | | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document | | 
101.CAL | | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document | | 
101.DEF | | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document | | 
101.LAB | | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document | | 


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | | Description | Incorporated by reference herein
 | Form | | Date 
101.PRE | | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document | 
104 | | | Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101) | 

_________________

u | Indicates management compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement.
* | Filed herewith. 
‡ | Furnished herewith. 


ITEM 16. | FORM 10-K SUMMARY

None.

Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 1. | BUSINESS

Overview
As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history -- inspiring us to do things like rethink the mobile device ecosystem with Android and map the world with Google Maps. As part of that, our founders also explained that you could expect us to make "smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses." From the start, the company has always strived to do more, and to do important and meaningful things with the resources we have.
Alphabet is a collection of businesses -- the largest of which is Google. It also includes businesses that are generally pretty far afield of our main internet products in areas such as self-driving cars, life sciences, internet access and TV services. We report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Our Alphabet structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence.
Access and technology for everyone
The Internet is one of the world’s most powerful equalizers, capable of propelling new ideas and people forward. At Google, our mission is to make sure that information serves everyone, not just a few. So whether you're a child in a rural village or a professor at an elite university, you can access the same information. We are helping people get online by tailoring digital experiences to the needs of emerging markets. For instance, our digital payments app in India, now called Google Pay, helps tens of millions of people and businesses easily pay with just a few taps. We're also making sure our core Google products are fast and useful, especially for users in areas where speed and connectivity are central concerns.
Other Alphabet companies are also pursuing initiatives with similar goals. For instance, Loon announced that it will bring its balloon-powered internet to regions of central Kenya, starting in 2019.
Moonshots
Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. We continue to look toward the future and continue to invest for the long-term. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in because they are the key to our long-term success.
The power of machine learning
Across the company, machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) are increasingly driving many of our latest innovations. Within Google, our investments in machine learning over a decade have enabled us to build products that are smarter and more useful -- it's what allows you to use your voice to ask the Google Assistant for information, to translate the web from one language to another, to see better YouTube recommendations, and to search for people and events in Google Photos. Our advertising tools also use machine learning to help marketers find the right audience, deliver the right creative, and optimize their campaigns through better auto-bidding and measurement tools. Machine learning is also showing great promise in helping us tackle big issues, like dramatically improving the energy efficiency of our data centers. 
Across Other Bets, machine learning helps self-driving cars better detect and respond to others on the road, assists delivery drones in determining whether a location is safe for drop off, and can also help clinicians more accurately detect sight-threatening eye diseases.
Google
Serving our users
We have always been a company committed to building products that have the potential to improve the lives of millions of people. Our product innovations have made our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google's core products and platforms such as Android, Chrome, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube each have over one billion monthly active users. But most important, we believe we are just beginning to scratch the surface. Our vision is to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation 
3


Alphabet Inc.

that uses our technical expertise to tackle big problems. As the majority of Alphabet’s big bets continue to reside within Google, an important benefit of the shift to Alphabet has been the tremendous focus that we’re able to have on Google’s many extraordinary opportunities.
Google’s mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful has always been our North Star, and our products have come a long way since the company was founded two decades ago. Instead of just showing ten blue links in our search results, we are increasingly able to provide direct answers -- even if you're speaking your question using Voice Search -- which makes it quicker, easier and more natural to find what you're looking for. You can also type or talk with the Google Assistant in a conversational way across multiple devices like phones, speakers, headphones, televisions and more. And with Google Lens, you can use your phone’s camera to identify an unfamiliar landmark or find a trailer from a movie poster. Over time, we have also added other services that let you access information quickly and easily -- like Google Maps, which helps you navigate to a store while showing you current traffic conditions, or Google Photos, which helps you store and organize your photos.
This drive to make information more accessible has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content, on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. And with the migration to mobile, people are consuming more digital content by watching more videos, playing more games, listening to more music, reading more books, and using more apps than ever before. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to find great digital content.
Fueling all of these great digital experiences are powerful platforms and hardware. That’s why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, Chrome operating system, and Daydream virtual reality platform, as well as growing our family of great hardware devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful, make your life easier, and get better over time, by combining the best of Google's AI, software, and hardware. This is reflected in our latest generation of hardware products like Pixel 3 phones and the Google Home Hub smart display. Creating beautiful products that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long run.
Google was a company built in the cloud and has been investing in infrastructure, security, data management, analytics, and AI from the very beginning. We have continued to enhance these strengths with features like data migration, modern development environments and machine learning tools to provide enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and G Suite, to our customers. Google Cloud Platform enables developers to build, test, and deploy applications on Google’s highly scalable and reliable infrastructure. Our G Suite productivity tools -- which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Hangouts, and more -- are designed with real-time collaboration and machine intelligence to help people work smarter. Because more and more of today’s great digital experiences are being built in the cloud, our Google Cloud products help businesses of all sizes take advantage of the latest technology advances to operate more efficiently.
Key to building helpful products for users is our commitment to keeping their data safe online. As the Internet evolves, we continue to invest in our industry-leading security technologies and privacy tools.
How we make money
The goal of our advertising business is to deliver relevant ads at just the right time and to give people useful commercial information, regardless of the device they’re using. We also provide advertisers with tools that help them better attribute and measure their advertising campaigns across screens. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses, and we offer a wide range of products across screens and formats. We generate revenues primarily by delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising.

• | Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Most of our performance advertisers pay us when a user engages in their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results.


Our ads tools allow performance advertisers to create simple text-based ads that appear on Google properties and the properties of Google Network Members. In addition, Google Network Members use our platforms to display relevant ads on their properties, generating revenues when site visitors view or click on the ads. We continue to invest in our advertising programs and make significant upgrades.

• | Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns.


4


Alphabet Inc.

We have built a world-class ad technology platform for brand advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. We also seek to improve the measurability of brand advertising so advertisers know when their campaigns are effective.
We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, ranging from filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions of bad ads from our systems every year to closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blacklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content.
Beyond our advertising business, we also generate revenues in other areas. For instance, we generate revenue when users purchase digital content like apps, movies and music through Google Play or when they purchase our Made by Google hardware devices. Businesses also pay for the use of our cloud services like Google Cloud Platform and G Suite. 
Other Bets
Throughout Alphabet, we are also using technology to try and solve big problems across many industries. Alphabet’s Other Bets are emerging businesses at various stages of development, ranging from those in the research and development phase to those that are in the beginning stages of commercialization, and our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the medium to long term. To do this, we make sure we have a strong CEO to run each company while also rigorously handling capital allocation and working to make sure each business is executing well. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries.
We continue to build these businesses thoughtfully and systematically to capitalize on the opportunities ahead. We are investing for the long term while being very deliberate about the focus, scale and pace of investments. Other Bets primarily generate revenues from internet and TV services and licensing and R&D services.
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from:

• | General purpose search engines and information services, such as Baidu, Microsoft's Bing, Naver, Seznam, Verizon's Yahoo, and Yandex.


• | Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Amazon and eBay (e-commerce), Booking's Kayak (travel queries), Microsoft's LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google.


• | Social networks, such as Facebook, Snapchat, and Twitter. Some users increasingly rely on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines.


• | Other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline.


• | Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Amazon, AppNexus, Criteo, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers that use Google Ads, our primary auction-based advertising platform.


• | Providers of digital video services, such as Amazon, Facebook, Hulu, and Netflix.

We compete with companies that have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users in businesses that are further afield from our advertising business. We face competition from:

• | Other digital content and application platform providers, such as Apple.


• | Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer electronics products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms.


• | Providers of enterprise cloud services, including Alibaba, Amazon, and Microsoft.


• | Digital assistant providers, such as Amazon and Apple.

Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to deliver and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace across our businesses. Specifically, for our advertising-related businesses, competing successfully depends on attracting and retaining:
5


Alphabet Inc.


• | Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely on the basis of the relevance of our advertising, as well as the general usefulness, security and availability of our products and services.


• | Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels.


• | Content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.

Intellectual Property
We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties.
Culture and Employees
We take great pride in our culture. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex technical challenges. Transparency and open dialogue are central to how we work, and we aim to ensure that company news reaches our employees first through internal channels.
Despite our rapid growth, we still cherish our roots as a startup and wherever possible empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their role or function within the company. We strive to hire great employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as those of our global users. We work to provide an environment where these talented people can have fulfilling careers addressing some of the biggest challenges in technology and society.
Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue investing in hiring talented employees and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees. As of December 31, 2018, we had 98,771 full-time employees. Although we have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our U.S. employees are not represented by a labor union. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff.
Seasonality
Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality.
Other Items
We believe that climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time. We have established a climate change strategy based on four dimensions: matching 100% of the electricity consumption of our operations with purchases of renewable energy; understanding the effect of climate change on the resiliency of our core business operations; being a vocal advocate for greening electrical grids worldwide; and empowering everyone—businesses, governments, nonprofit organizations, communities, and individuals—to use Google technology to help create a more sustainable and resource-efficient world. Google's approach to climate change and our broader sustainability efforts are provided in our annual sustainability reports.
Available Information
Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC. 
We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance and other items of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. We also share Google news and product updates on Google's Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, which may be of interest or material to our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
6


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 1A. | RISK FACTORS

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.
Risks Related to Our Businesses and Industries
We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected.
Our businesses are rapidly evolving, intensely competitive, and subject to changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our technology and our existing products and services, and introduce new products and services that people can easily and effectively use.
We have many competitors in different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Some companies have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users. They can use their experiences and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in research and development and in hiring talent, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete aggressively for users, advertisers, customers, and content providers. Our competitors may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the need for products and services before us.
In addition, new products and services, including those that incorporate or utilize artificial intelligence and machine learning, can raise new or exacerbate existing ethical, technological, legal, and other challenges, which may negatively affect our brands and demand for our products and services and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Our operating results may also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, and content providers; are not appropriately timed with market opportunities; or are not effectively brought to market. As technologies continue to develop, our competitors may be able to offer our users and/or customers experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, customers, and content providers, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected.
We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending by advertisers or a loss of partners could harm our advertising business.
We generated over 85% of total revenues from advertising in 2018. Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content partners can terminate their contracts with us at any time. Those partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. For example, changes to our data privacy practices, as well as changes to third-party advertising policies or practices may affect the type of ads and/or manner of advertising that we are able to provide which could have an adverse effect on our business. If we do not provide superior value or deliver advertisements efficiently and competitively, our reputation could be affected, we could see a decrease in revenue from advertisers and/or experience other adverse effects to our business.
In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions can also have a material negative effect on user activity and the demand for advertising and cause our advertisers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising, which could adversely affect our revenues and advertising business.
We are subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny as well as changes in public policies governing a wide range of topics that may negatively affect our business.
We and other companies in the technology industry have experienced increased regulatory scrutiny recently. For instance, various regulatory agencies are reviewing aspects of our search and other businesses. This can lead to increased scrutiny from other regulators and legislators, that may affect our reputation, brand and third-party 
7


Alphabet Inc.

relationships. Such reviews have and may in the future also result in substantial regulatory fines, changes to our business practices and other penalties, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We continue to cooperate with regulatory authorities around the world in investigations they are conducting with respect to our business. 
Changes in social, political, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics may cause us to change our business practices. Further, our expansion into a variety of new fields also raises a number of new regulatory issues. These factors could negatively affect our business and results of operations in material ways.
Our ongoing investment in new businesses and new products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our current operations.
We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The creation of Alphabet as a holding company in 2015 and the investments that we are making across various areas in Google and Other Bets are a reflection of our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users. Our investments in Google and Other Bets span a wide range of industries. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from our advertising and related business, use of alternative investment, governance or compensation structures, the fact that such offerings or strategies may not be commercially viable for an indefinite amount of time or at all, or may not result in adequate return of capital on our investments; and unidentified issues may not be discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and offerings which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
The Internet is accessed through a variety of platforms and form factors that continue to evolve with the advancement of technology and user preferences. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our search technology, products, or operating systems developed for these devices and modalities, our business could be adversely affected.
The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than desktop computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-activated speakers, wearables, automobiles, and television set-top devices, is increasing dramatically. The functionality and user experience associated with some alternative devices and modalities may make the use of our products and services or the generation of advertising revenue through such devices more difficult (or just different), and the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compatible or compelling to users, manufacturers, or distributors of alternative devices. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not be available on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via voice-activated speakers, apps, social media or other platforms, which could affect our search and advertising business over time. As new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the challenges we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of products and services across multiple platforms and devices. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users to our products and services, or if we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with alternative devices and platforms, we may fail to capture the opportunities available as consumers and advertisers continue to exist in a dynamic, multi-platform environment.
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future.
Our revenue growth rate could decline and/or vary over time as a result of a number of factors, including increasing competition and the continued expansion of our business into a variety of new fields. Within our advertising business, changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix and an increasing competition for advertising may also affect our revenue growth rate. We may also experience a decline in our revenue growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels or if there is a decrease in the rate of adoption of our products, services, and technologies, among other factors.
In addition to a decline in our revenue growth rate, we may also experience downward pressure on our operating margin resulting from a variety of factors, such as the continued expansion of our business into a variety of new fields, including through products and services such as Google Cloud, Google Play, and hardware products where margins have generally been lower than those we generate from advertising. We may also experience downward pressure on our operating margins from increasing competition and increased costs for many aspects of our business, including within advertising where changes such as device mix and property mix can affect margin. The margin we earn on 
8


Alphabet Inc.

revenues generated from our Google Network Members could also decrease in the future if we pay a larger percentage of advertising fees to them. We may also pay increased TAC to our distribution partners due to a number of factors. Additionally, our spend to promote new products and services or distribute certain products or an increased investment in our innovation efforts across the Company (within Google as well as our Other Bets businesses) may affect our operating margins.
Due to these factors and the evolving nature of our business, our historical revenue growth rate and historical operating margin may not be indicative of our future performance.
Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations.
Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly, year-to-date, and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may differ significantly from our historical rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed in this section in addition to the following factors may affect our operating results:

• | Our ability to continue to attract and retain users and customers to our products and services.


• | Our ability to attract user and/or customer adoption of and generate significant revenues from new products, services, and technologies in which we have invested considerable time and resources.


• | Our ability to monetize (or generate revenues from) traffic on Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties across various devices.


• | Revenue fluctuations in our advertising business caused by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix.


• | The amount of revenues and expenses generated and incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and our ability to manage the resulting risk through our foreign exchange risk management program.


• | The amount and timing of operating costs and expenses and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure.


• | Our focus on long-term goals over short-term results.


• | The results of our acquisitions, divestitures, and our investments in risky projects, including new businesses, products, services, and technologies.


• | Our ability to keep our products and services operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions.


• | The seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising spending, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality. Our rapid growth has tended to mask the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results to fluctuate.

Because our businesses are changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results.
A variety of new and existing laws and/or interpretations could harm our business.
We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may make our products and services less useful, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. For example, our products and services are closely scrutinized by competition authorities around the world, which may limit our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products or services. Current and new patent laws may also affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. Similarly, the Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market (DSM) in Europe, if passed in its proposed form, will increase the liability of large hosted platforms with respect to content uploaded by their users. It will also create a new property right in news publications that will limit the ability of online services to interact with or present such content. In addition to the DSM, other changes to copyright laws being considered elsewhere, will, if passed, increase costs and require companies, including us, to change or cease offering certain existing services. Additionally, as the focus on data privacy and security increases globally, we are and will 
9


Alphabet Inc.

continue to be subject to various and evolving laws. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future.
Furthermore, many of these laws do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by a number of our new businesses, products, services and technologies. In addition, the applicability and scope of these laws, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain.
Other recently passed laws and/or certain court decisions that could harm our business include, among others:

• | We rely on statutory safe harbors, as set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the United States and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, against copyright liability for various linking, caching, and hosting activities. Any legislation or court rulings affecting these safe harbors may adversely affect us.


• | Court decisions such as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on May 13, 2014 on the ‘right to be forgotten,’ which allows individuals to demand that Google remove search results about them in certain instances, may limit the content we can show to our users and impose significant operational burdens.


• | Court decisions that require Google to suppress content not just in the jurisdiction of the issuing court, but for all of our users worldwide, including locations where the content at issue is lawful. The Supreme Court of Canada issued such a decision against Google in June 2017, and others could treat its decision as persuasive. For instance, with respect to the ‘right to be forgotten,’ a follow-up case is pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union, which could result in an order to apply delisting actions under the ‘right to be forgotten’ worldwide.


• | Various U.S. and international laws that govern the distribution of certain materials to children and regulate the ability of online services to collect information from minors.


• | Various laws with regard to content removal and disclosure obligations, such as the Network Enforcement Act in Germany, which may affect our businesses and operations and may subject us to significant fines if such laws are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices.


• | Data protection laws passed by many states within the U.S. and by certain countries regarding notification to data subjects and/or regulators when there is a security breach of personal data.


• | The California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 that comes into effect in January of 2020, and gives new data privacy rights to California residents and regulates the security of data in connection with internet connected devices.


• | Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country.


• | Privacy laws, which could be interpreted broadly thereby limiting product offerings and/or increasing costs.

Any failure on our part to comply with laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Due to our manufacturing and sale of an expanded suite of products, including hardware as well as our Google Cloud offerings, we may also be subject to a variety of claims including product warranty, product liability and consumer protection claims related to product defects, among other litigation. We may also be subject to claims involving health and safety, hazardous materials usage, other environmental concerns or if users or customers experience service disruptions, failures, or other issues. In addition, our businesses face intellectual property litigation, as discussed later, that exposes us to the risk of exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell products and services.
Such claims, suits, and government investigations are inherently uncertain. Regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse effect on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, negative publicity and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. The resolution of one or more such proceedings has resulted and may in the future result in additional substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. These proceedings could also result in 
10


Alphabet Inc.

reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or product recalls or corrections, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content.
We host and provide a wide variety of services and products that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities both domestically and internationally. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services and products for activities of their users is still somewhat unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally. Claims have been threatened and have been brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright or trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our users. In addition, we are and have been and may again in the future be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our products and services violates U.S. and international law.
We also place advertisements which are displayed on third-party publishers and advertising networks properties, and we offer third-party products, services, or content. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, or content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting, or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, provide, or provide access to these products, services, or content. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, which may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner.
Data privacy and security concerns relating to our technology and our practices could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. Bugs or defects in our products and services have occurred and may occur in the future, or our security measures could be breached, resulting in the improper use and/or disclosure of user data, and our services and systems are subject to attacks that could degrade or deny the ability of users and customers to access, or rely on information received about, our products and services. As a consequence, our products and services may be perceived as being insecure, users and customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal, reputational, and financial exposure.
From time to time, concerns are expressed about whether our products, services, or processes compromise the privacy of users, customers, and others. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other data privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. Our policies and practices may change over time as users’ and customers’ expectations regarding privacy and their data changes.
Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users’ and customers’ proprietary information, and bugs, theft, misuse, defects, vulnerabilities in our products and services, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, improper use and disclosure of such information, litigation, and other potential liability. Systems failures, compromises of our security, failure to abide by our privacy policies, inadvertent disclosure that results in the release of our users’ data, or in our or our users’ inability to access such data, could result in government investigations and other liability, legislation or regulation, seriously harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business, and impair our ability to attract and retain users. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to maintain state-of-the-art security protections that shield against bugs, theft, misuse or security vulnerabilities or breaches.
We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems on a regular basis. Our security measures may in the future be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, including vulnerabilities of our vendors, suppliers, their products, or otherwise. Such breach or other unauthorized access, increased government surveillance, or attempts by outside parties to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, become more sophisticated, and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or detect these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Cyber attacks could also compromise trade secrets and other sensitive information and result in such information being disclosed to others and becoming less valuable, which could negatively affect our business. If an actual or perceived breach of our security 
11


Alphabet Inc.

occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users and customers.
While we have dedicated significant resources to privacy and security incident response, including dedicated worldwide incident response teams, our response process may not be adequate, may fail to accurately assess the severity of an incident, may not respond quickly enough, or may fail to sufficiently remediate an incident, among other issues. As a result, we may suffer significant legal, reputational, or financial exposure, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Our business is subject to complex and rapidly evolving U.S. and international laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business.
Companies are under increased regulatory scrutiny relating to data privacy and security. Authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, including measures to ensure that encryption of users’ data does not hinder law enforcement agencies’ access to that data. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. These legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, and such interpretations could, in addition to the possibility of fines, result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.
Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of personal data from Europe to the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), became effective in the European Union (EU) beginning on May 25, 2018, and applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services that we offer to EU users or customers, or the monitoring of their behavior in the EU. The GDPR subjects us to a range of new compliance obligations.
Ensuring compliance with the GDPR is an ongoing commitment which involves substantial costs, and it is possible that despite our efforts, governmental authorities or third parties will assert that our business practices fail to comply. We have been and may in the future be, subject to lawsuits alleging violations of the GDPR. If our operations are found to be in violation of the GDPR’s requirements, we may be required to change our business practices and/or be subject to significant civil penalties, business disruption, and reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, serious breaches of the GDPR can result in administrative fines of up to the higher of 4% of annual worldwide revenues or €20 million. Fines of up to the higher of 2% of annual worldwide revenues or €10 million can be levied for other specified violations.
In addition, the European Commission in July 2016 and the Swiss Government in January 2017 approved the EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks, respectively, which are designed to allow U.S. companies that self-certify to the U.S. Department of Commerce and publicly commit to comply with the Privacy Shield requirements to freely import personal data from the EU and Switzerland. However, these frameworks face a number of legal challenges and their validity remains subject to legal, regulatory and political developments in both Europe and the U.S. This has resulted in some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.
We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property or other claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.
Many companies, in particular those in internet, technology and media own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies may continue to seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained by bringing claims against us, whether such claims are meritorious or not. As we have grown, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies.
We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell our products or services in the U.S. or elsewhere if our products or services or those of our customers or suppliers are found to 
12


Alphabet Inc.

infringe the intellectual property subject to the claims. Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices and require development of non-infringing products, services or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business.
Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to defend against certain intellectual property infringement claims and/or indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could result in increased costs for defending such claims or significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers arising from intellectual property infringement claims brought against us. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims.
Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and cause significant diversion of management attention. To the extent such claims are successful, they may have an adverse effect on our business, including our product and service offerings, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand as well as affect our ability to compete.
Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable.
We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of such trade secrets and other sensitive information could be compromised by outside parties, or by our employees, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word “Google” could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word “search.” Some courts have ruled that "Google" is a protectable trademark, however it is possible that other courts, particularly those outside of the United States, may reach a different determination. If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word “Google” to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand.
Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results.
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and divestitures are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. Effecting these strategic transactions could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include, among others:

• | Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic transactions.


• | Failure to successfully further develop the acquired business or technology.


• | Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company.

13


Alphabet Inc.


• | Integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions.


• | Transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms.


• | Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or other strategic transaction.


• | In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.


• | Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire.


• | Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, privacy issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities.


• | Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties.

Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.
Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or results. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results.
Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners.
Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our brands may be negatively affected by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy issues and developments, and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to appropriately respond to the sharing of objectionable content on our services or objectionable practices by advertisers, or to otherwise adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence in our brands. Our brands may also be negatively affected by the use of our products or services to disseminate information that is deemed to be false or misleading.
Furthermore, if we fail to maintain and enhance equity in our brands, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our success will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a meaningful role in people’s everyday lives.
We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that, if not properly managed, could adversely affect our financial results and prospects.
We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management. These manufacturing and supply chain risks could affect our ability to supply both our products and our internet-based services.
We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products, third-party arrangements for the design of some components and parts, and third party distributors, including cellular network carriers. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage third parties with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them.
14


Alphabet Inc.

We may experience supply shortages and price increases driven by raw material availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. We may experience shortages or other supply chain disruptions in the future that could negatively affect our operations. In addition, some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and products are available only from a single source or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms or at all in the event of a supply chain disruption. In addition, a significant hardware supply interruption could delay critical data center upgrades or expansions.
We may enter into long term contracts that commit us to significant terms and conditions of supply. We may be liable for material and product that is not consumed due to market acceptance, technological change, obsolescences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because many of our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and therefore less competitive and negatively affect our financial results. Furthermore, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect our supply.
The products and services we sell or offer may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products and services does not meet our users’ and/or customers’ expectations or our products or services are found to be defective, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively affected.
We also require our suppliers and business partners to comply with law and, where applicable, our company policies, such as the Google Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. If any of them violates laws or implements practices regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. If any of them fails to procure necessary license rights to third-party intellectual property, legal action could ensue that could affect the saleability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to third parties.
Web spam, including content farms, and other violations of our guidelines could affect the quality of our services, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services.
Web spam refers to websites that violate or attempt to violate our guidelines or that otherwise seek to inappropriately rank higher in search results than our search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. Web spam may also affect the quality of content posted on our platforms and may manipulate them to display false, misleading or undesirable content. 
Although English-language web spam in our search results has been significantly reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek ways to improve their rankings inappropriately. We continuously combat web spam in our search results, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We also continue to invest in and deploy proprietary technology to detect and prevent web spam from abusing our platforms.
We also face other challenges from web spam such as low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes focused on low-quality websites. 
We, like others in the industry, face other violations of our guidelines, including sophisticated attempts by bad actors to manipulate our advertising systems to fraudulently generate revenues for themselves or others, or to otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine user interest or intent. While we invest significantly in efforts to detect and prevent invalid traffic, including attempts by bad actors to generate income fraudulently, we may be unable to adequately detect and prevent such abuses in the future. 
If we are subject to an increasing number of web spam, including content farms or other violations of our guidelines, this could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information or reduce user traffic to our websites or their use of our platforms, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results.
Interruption, interference with or failure of our information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results.
15


Alphabet Inc.

The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage, interference or interruption from terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm or access our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and to potential disruptions if the operators of certain of these facilities have financial difficulties. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities.
The occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility we are using, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and may contain errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in our services or the failure of our systems.
Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues in 2018. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following:

• | Restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.


• | Import and export requirements, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers, and customs classifications that may prevent us from offering products or providing services to a particular market and may increase our operating costs.


• | Longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud.


• | Evolving foreign laws and legal systems, including those that may occur as a result of the United Kingdom's potential withdrawal from the European Union ("Brexit"). Brexit may adversely affect global economic and market conditions and could contribute to volatility in the foreign exchange markets, which we may be unable to effectively manage through our foreign exchange risk management program. Brexit may also adversely affect our revenues and could subject us to new regulatory costs and challenges, in addition to other adverse effects that we are unable to effectively anticipate.


• | Uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent.


• | Different employee/employer relationships, existence of workers' councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions.

Changes in international local political, economic, regulatory, tax, social, and labor conditions may also harm our business, and compliance with complex international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include, among others, internal control and disclosure rules, privacy and data protection requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting certain payments to governmental officials, and competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our international growth efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies.
Since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy.
16


Alphabet Inc.

Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, Larry Page and Sergey Brin are critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries, and they, along with Sundar Pichai, the Chief Executive Officer of Google, play an important role in the development of our technology. They also play a key role in maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could seriously harm our business.
We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively.
Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees.
In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, particularly in light of our holding company structure, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively affect our future success.
Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers.
Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures, including legal actions, that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms of discrimination by Internet access providers; however, substantial uncertainty exists in the United States and elsewhere regarding such protections. For example, in the United States the Federal Communications Commission repealed net neutrality rules effective June 11, 2018, which could lead internet access providers to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. Such interference could result in a loss of existing users, customers and advertisers, goodwill, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users, customers and advertisers, thereby harming our revenues and growth.
New and existing technologies could affect our ability to customize ads and/or could block ads online, which would harm our business.
Technologies have been developed to make customizable ads more difficult or to block the display of ads altogether and some providers of online services have integrated technologies that could potentially impair the core functionality of third-party digital advertising. Most of our Google revenues are derived from fees paid to us in connection with the display of ads online. As a result, such technologies and tools could adversely affect our operating results.
We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investments.
Given the global nature of our business, we have investments both domestically and internationally. Market values of these investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates, including changes that may result from the implementation of new benchmark rates that replace LIBOR, the effect of new or changing regulations, or other factors. 
Due to the adoption of ASU 2016-01 “Financial Instruments; Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” in January 2018, we adjust the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities to fair value for observable transactions of identical or similar investments of the same issuer and impairment. All gains and losses on non-marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized in other income (expense), which increases the volatility of our other income (expense). 
17


Alphabet Inc.

As a result of these factors, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents, as well as our marketable and non-marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.
We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities.
Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items.
In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions on various tax-related assertions, examples include transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.
Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations.
Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock
The trading price for our Class A common stock and non-voting Class C capital stock may continue to be volatile.
The trading price of our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. For example, from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018, the closing price of our Class A common stock ranged from $984.66 per share to $1,285.50 per share, and the closing price of our Class C capital stock ranged from $976.21 to $1,268.32 per share.
In addition to the factors discussed in this report, the trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others:

• | Quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors.


• | Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments.


• | Recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates.


• | Announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the risk of which is enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance on earnings.


• | Announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations.


• | Commentary by industry and market professionals about our products, strategies, and other matters affecting our business and results, regardless of its accuracy.


• | The volume of shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock available for public sale.


• | Sales of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock by us or by our stockholders (including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other employees).


• | Short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock.


• | The perceived values of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock relative to one another.


• | Any share repurchase program.

In addition, the stock market in general, which can be affected by various factors, including overall economic and political conditions, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. 
18


Alphabet Inc.

These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock regardless of our actual operating performance.
We cannot guarantee that any share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that any share repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our stock and could diminish our cash reserves.
In 2016 and 2018, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $7.0 billion and $8.6 billion of its Class C capital stock, respectively. The 2016 authorization was completed in 2018. As of December 31, 2018, $1.7 billion remains available for repurchase. In January 2019, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $12.5 billion of our Class C capital stock. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date and does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. Our share repurchase program could affect the price of our stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock.
The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters.
Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A common stock has one vote per share, and our Class C capital stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2018, Larry Page, Sergey Brin, and Eric E. Schmidt beneficially owned approximately 92.8% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which represented approximately 56.5% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Larry, Sergey, and Eric therefore have significant influence over management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C capital stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could prolong the duration of Larry, Sergey and Eric’s current relative ownership of our voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. This concentrated control limits or severely restricts our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock could be adversely affected.
Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.
Provisions in Alphabet’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:

• | Our certificate of incorporation provides for a tri-class capital stock structure. As a result of this structure, Larry, Sergey, and Eric have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, or other change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. As noted above, the issuance of the Class C capital stock could have the effect of prolonging the influence of Larry, Sergey, and Eric.


• | Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors.


• | Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting.


• | Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates.


• | Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company.


• | Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.

19


Alphabet Inc.

As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.
Risk Related to Our Holding Company Reorganization 
As a holding company, Alphabet is dependent on the operations and funds of its subsidiaries.
Alphabet is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Alphabet’s most significant assets are the outstanding equity interests in its subsidiaries, including Google, that are each separate and distinct legal entities. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely on cash flows from subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including to service any debt obligations of Alphabet. Our subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to Alphabet and therefore, our ability to meet our obligations may be adversely affected by such restrictions.

ITEM 1B. | UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

Not applicable.

ITEM 2. | PROPERTIES

Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We also own and lease office and building space in the surrounding areas near our headquarters, which in the aggregate (including our headquarters) represent approximately 11.2 million square feet of office/building space and approximately fifty-nine acres of developable land to accommodate anticipated future growth. In addition, we own and lease office/building space and research and development sites around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We own and operate data centers in the U.S., Europe, South America, and Asia. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.

ITEM 3. | LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see Note 9 “Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Matters” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4. | MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.
20


Alphabet Inc.

PART II

ITEM 5. | MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

As of October 2, 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since August 19, 2004 and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. Our Class B common stock is neither listed nor traded. Our Class C capital stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since April 3, 2014.
Holders of Record
As of December 31, 2018, there were approximately 2,026 and 2,195 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock, respectively. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of December 31, 2018, there were approximately 65 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock.
Dividend Policy
We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class C capital stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2018: 

Period | Total Number of Shares Purchased (in thousands) (1) | Average Price Paid per Share (2) | | Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(in thousands) (1) | Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (in millions)
October 1 - 31 | 830 | | $ | 1,115.81 | | 830 | $ | 3,412
November 1 - 30 | 859 | | $ | 1,054.22 | | 859 | $ | 2,506
December 1 - 31 | 781 | | $ | 1,048.23 | | 781 | $ | 1,688
Total | 2,470 | | $ | 1,073.02 | | 2,470 | 


(1) | In January 2018, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $8.6 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. See Note 10 in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases.


(2) | Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases.

21


Alphabet Inc.

Stock Performance Graphs
The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class A's cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2018. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS A COMMON STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2013 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2015 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.
22


Alphabet Inc.

The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class C's cumulative 57-Month total shareholder return on capital stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our Class C capital stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from April 3, 2014 to December 31, 2018. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
ALPHABET INC. CLASS C CAPITAL STOCK
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on April 3, 2014 in stock or in index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2015 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.
23


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 6. | SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period.

 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017 | 2018
 | (in millions, except per share amounts)
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: 
Revenues | $ | 66,001 | | | $ | 74,989 | | $ | 90,272 | $ | 110,855 | $ | 136,819
Income from operations | $ | 16,496 | | | $ | 19,360 | | $ | 23,716 | $ | 26,146 | $ | 26,321 
Net income from continuing operations | $ | 13,620 | | | $ | 16,348 | | $ | 19,478 | $ | 12,662 | $ | 30,736 
Net income from discontinued operations | $ | 516 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | $ | 0 | $ | 0 
Net income | $ | 14,136 | | | $ | 16,348 | | $ | 19,478 | $ | 12,662 | $ | 30,736 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock: 
Continuing operations | $ | 20.15 | | | $ | 23.11 | | $ | 28.32 | $ | 18.27 | $ | 44.22 
Discontinued operations | 0.76 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 20.91 | | | $ | 23.11 | | $ | 28.32 | $ | 18.27 | $ | 44.22 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock: 
Continuing operations | $ | 20.15 | | | $ | 24.63 | | $ | 28.32 | $ | 18.27 | $ | 44.22 
Discontinued operations | 0.76 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 20.91 | | | $ | 24.63 | | $ | 28.32 | $ | 18.27 | $ | 44.22 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock:
Continuing operations | $ | 19.82 | | | $ | 22.84 | | $ | 27.85 | $ | 18.00 | $ | 43.70 
Discontinued operations | 0.75 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 20.57 | | | $ | 22.84 | | $ | 27.85 | $ | 18.00 | $ | 43.70 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock: 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.82 | | | $ | 24.34 | | $ | 27.85 | $ | 18.00 | $ | 43.70 
Discontinued operations | 0.75 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 20.57 | | | $ | 24.34 | | $ | 27.85 | $ | 18.00 | $ | 43.70 


 | As of December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | 2016 | | 2017 | 2018
 | (in millions) 
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: 
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | $ | 64,395 | | $ | 73,066 | | $ | 86,333 | $ | 101,871 | $ | 109,140
Total assets | $ | 129,187 | | $ | 147,461 | | $ | 167,497 | $ | 197,295 | $ | 232,792
Total long-term liabilities | $ | 8,548 | | $ | 7,820 | | $ | 11,705 | $ | 20,610 | $ | 20,544 
Total stockholders’ equity | $ | 103,860 | | $ | 120,331 | | $ | 139,036 | $ | 152,502 | $ | 177,628

24


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 7. | MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Trends in Our Business
The following trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to affect our future results:
•Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves.
The continuing shift from an offline to online world has contributed to the growth of our business since inception, contributing to revenue growth, and we expect that this online shift will continue to benefit our business.
•As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings which may affect our monetization.
As interactions between users and advertisers change and as online user behavior evolves, we continue to expand and evolve our product offerings to serve their changing needs. Over time, we expect our monetization trends to fluctuate. For example, we have seen an increase in YouTube engagement ads, which monetize at a lower rate than traditional desktop search ads. Additionally, we continue to see a shift to programmatic buying which presents opportunities for advertisers to connect with the right user, in the right moment, in the right context. Programmatic buying has a different monetization profile than traditional advertising buying on Google properties. 
•Users are increasingly using diverse devices and modalities to access our products and services, and our advertising revenues are increasingly coming from mobile and other new formats.
Our users are accessing the Internet via diverse devices and modalities and want to feel connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. We seek to expand our products and services to stay in front of this shift in order to maintain and grow our business.
We generate our advertising revenues increasingly from mobile and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these sources have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Accordingly, we expect TAC paid to our distribution partners to increase due to changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points. We expect these trends to continue to put pressure on our overall margins.
•As users in developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue to increase and movements in foreign exchange rates affect such revenues.
The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, and we continue to develop localized versions of our products and relevant advertising programs useful to our users in these markets. This has led to a trend of increased revenues from international markets over time and we expect that our results will continue to be affected by our performance in these markets, particularly as low-cost mobile devices become more available.
Our international revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a foreign exchange risk management program designed to reduce our exposure to these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect on our revenues and earnings.
•The portion of our revenues that we derive from non-advertising revenues is increasing and may affect margins.
Non-advertising revenues have grown over time. We expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our offerings to our users through products and services like Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware products, and YouTube subscriptions. Across these initiatives, we currently derive non-advertising revenues primarily from sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. The margins on these non-advertising businesses vary significantly and may be lower than the margins on our advertising business. A number of our Other Bets initiatives are in their initial development stages, and as such, the sources of revenues from these businesses could change over time and the revenues could be volatile.
25


Alphabet Inc.

•As we continue to look for new ways to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in R&D and capital expenditures.
We continue to make significant R&D investments in areas of strategic focus such as advertising, cloud, machine learning, and search, as well as in new products and services. Our capital expenditures have grown over time. We expect this trend to continue in the long term as we invest heavily in data centers, real estate and facilities, and information technology infrastructure.
In addition, acquisitions remain an important part of our strategy and use of capital, and we expect to continue to spend cash on acquisitions and other investments. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas.

• | Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them.

Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue hiring talented employees around the globe and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees.
Executive Overview of Results
Below are our key financial results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 (consolidated unless otherwise noted):

• | Revenues of $136.8 billion and revenue growth of 23% year over year, constant currency revenue growth of 22% year over year.


• | Google segment revenues of $136.2 billion with revenue growth of 23% year over year and Other Bets revenues of $595 million with revenue growth of 25% year over year.


• | Revenues from the United States, EMEA, APAC, and Other Americas were $63.3 billion, $44.6 billion, $21.4 billion, and $7.6 billion, respectively.


• | Cost of revenues was $59.5 billion, consisting of TAC of $26.7 billion and other cost of revenues of $32.8 billion. Our TAC as a percentage of advertising revenues was 23%.


• | Operating expenses (excluding cost of revenues) were $50.9 billion.


• | Income from operations was $26.3 billion.


• | Other income (expense), net, was $8.6 billion.


• | Effective tax rate was 12%.


• | Net income was $30.7 billion with diluted net income per share of $43.70.


• | Operating cash flow was $48.0 billion.


• | Capital expenditures were $25.1 billion.


• | Number of employees was 98,771 as of December 31, 2018.

Information about Segments
We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets.
Our reported segments are:

• | Google – Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings.


• | Other Bets – Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily.

In Q1 2018, Nest joined Google’s hardware team. Consequently, the financial results of Nest are reported in the Google segment, with Nest revenues reflected in Google other revenues. Prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the current period segment presentation. Consolidated financial results are not affected.
26


Alphabet Inc.

Please refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
Revenues
The following table presents our revenues, by segment and revenue source (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Google segment | | | | | 
Google properties revenues | $ | 63,785 | | | $ | 77,788 | | $ | 96,336 
Google Network Members' properties revenues | 15,598 | | | 17,587 | | | 19,982 
Google advertising revenues | 79,383 | | | 95,375 | | | 116,318
Google other revenues | 10,601 | | | 15,003 | | | 19,906 
Google segment revenues | $ | 89,984 | | | $ | 110,378 | | $ | 136,224
Other Bets | | | | | 
Other Bets revenues | $ | 288 | | | $ | 477 | | $ | 595 
Revenues | $ | 90,272 | | | $ | 110,855 | | $ | 136,819

Google segment
The following table presents our Google segment revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Google segment revenues | $ | 89,984 | | | $ | 110,378 | | | $ | 136,224
Google segment revenues as a percentage of total revenues | 99.7 | % | | 99.6 | % | | 99.6 | %

Use of Monetization Metrics
When assessing our advertising revenues performance, historically we presented the percentage change in the number of paid clicks and cost-per-click for both our Google properties and our Google Network Members’ properties (Network) revenues. As our impression-based revenues have become a more significant driver of Network revenues growth, the percentage change in paid clicks and cost-per-click cover less of our total Network revenues. As a result, in Q1 2018, we transitioned our Network revenue metrics from the percentage change in paid clicks and cost-per-click to the percentage change in impressions and cost-per-impression. Click-based revenues generated by our Network business are included in impression-based metrics, so that these metrics cover nearly all of our Network business. The monetization metrics for Google properties revenues remain unchanged.
Paid clicks for our Google properties represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users related to searches on Google.com, clicks related to advertisements on other owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play; and viewed YouTube engagement ads. Impressions for our Google Network Members' properties include impressions displayed to users served on Google Network Members' properties participating primarily in AdMob, AdSense for Content, AdSense for Search, and Google Ad Manager (includes what was formerly DoubleClick AdExchange). 
Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.
Cost-per-impression is defined as impression-based and click-based revenues divided by our total number of impressions and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each impression displayed to users.
As our business evolves, we periodically review, refine and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks on our Google properties and the number of impressions on Google Network Members’ properties and for identifying the revenues generated by click activity on our Google properties and the revenues generated by impression activity on Google Network Members’ properties.
Our advertising revenue growth, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google properties and the change in impressions and cost-per-impression on Google Network Members' properties and the correlation between these items, have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate because of various factors, including:
27


Alphabet Inc.


• | advertiser competition for keywords;


• | changes in advertising quality or formats;


• | changes in device mix;


• | changes in foreign currency exchange rates;


• | fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs;


• | general economic conditions;


• | growth rates of revenues within Google properties;


• | seasonality; and


• | traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals and channels.

Our advertising revenue growth rate has fluctuated over time as a result of a number of factors, including challenges in maintaining our growth rate as revenues increase to higher levels, changes in our product mix, increasing competition, query growth rates, our investments in new business strategies, shifts in the geographic mix of our revenues, and the evolution of the online advertising market. We also expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to be affected by evolving user preferences, the acceptance by users of our products and services as they are delivered on diverse devices and modalities, our ability to create a seamless experience for both users and advertisers, and movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
Google properties
The following table presents our Google properties revenues (in millions), and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Google properties revenues | $ | 63,785 | | | $ | 77,788 | | | $ | 96,336
Google properties revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 70.9 | % | | 70.5 | % | | 70.7 | %
Paid clicks change | | | 54 | % | | 62 | % 
Cost-per-click change | | | (21 | )% | | (25 | )% 

Google properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues that are generated on:

• | Google search properties which includes revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.; and


• | Other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, and YouTube.

Our Google properties revenues increased $18,548 million from 2017 to 2018 and increased $14,003 million from 2016 to 2017. The growth during both periods was primarily driven by increases in mobile search resulting from ongoing growth in user adoption and usage, as well as continued growth in advertiser activity. We also experienced growth in YouTube driven primarily by video advertising, as well as growth in desktop search due to improvements in ad formats and delivery. Additionally, revenue growth from 2017 to 2018 was favorably affected by the general weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. The growth from 2016 to 2017 was partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 
The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs on Google properties increased from 2017 to 2018 and from 2016 to 2017 due to growth in YouTube engagement ads, increases in mobile search queries, improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, and continued global expansion of our products, advertisers and user base. The positive effect on our revenues from an increase in paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers from 2017 to 2018 and from 2016 to 2017. The decreases in cost-per-click were primarily driven by continued growth in YouTube engagement ads where cost-per-click remains lower than on our other advertising platforms. Cost-per-click was also affected by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product changes, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
28


Alphabet Inc.

Google Network Members' properties
The following table presents our Google Network Members' properties revenues (in millions) and changes in our impressions and cost-per-impression (expressed as a percentage):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Google Network Members' properties revenues | $ | 15,598 | | | $ | 17,587 | | | $ | 19,982
Google Network Members' properties revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 17.3 | % | | 15.9 | % | | 14.7 | %
Impressions change | | | 3 | % | | 2 | % 
Cost-per-impression change | | | 8 | % | | 12 | % 

Google Network Members' properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated from advertisements served on Google Network Members' properties participating in:

• | AdMob;


• | AdSense (such as AdSense for Content, AdSense for Search, etc.); and


• | Google Ad Manager.

Our Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $2,395 million from 2017 to 2018. The growth was primarily driven by strength in both AdMob and programmatic advertising buying, offset by a decline in our traditional AdSense businesses. Additionally, the growth was favorably affected by the general weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
The increase in impressions from 2017 to 2018 resulted primarily from growth in AdMob offset by a decrease from AdSense for Content due to ongoing product changes. The increase in cost-per-impression was primarily due to ongoing product and policy changes and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery and was also affected by changes in device mix, geographic mix, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Our Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $1,989 million from 2016 to 2017. The growth was primarily driven by strength in both programmatic advertising buying and AdMob, offset by a decline in our traditional AdSense businesses and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
The increase in impressions from 2016 to 2017 resulted primarily from growth in programmatic advertising and AdMob, partially offset by a decrease from AdSense for Search. The increase in cost-per-impression from 2016 to 2017 was primarily due to ongoing product and policy changes and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery and was also affected by changes in device mix, geographic mix, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Google other revenues
The following table presents our Google other revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Google other revenues | $ | 10,601 | | | $ | 15,003 | | | $ | 19,906
Google other revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 11.8 | % | | 13.6 | % | | 14.6 | %

Google other revenues consist primarily of revenues from:

• | Apps, in-app purchases, and digital content in the Google Play store;


• | Google Cloud offerings; and


• | Hardware.

Our Google other revenues increased $4,903 million from 2017 to 2018. The increase was primarily driven by revenues from Google Cloud offerings, revenues from Google Play, largely relating to in-app purchases (revenues which we recognize net of payout to developers), and hardware sales.
Our Google other revenues increased $4,402 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase was primarily driven by revenues from Google Cloud offerings, hardware sales, and revenues from Google Play, largely relating to in-app purchases (revenues which we recognize net of payout to developers).
29


Alphabet Inc.

Other Bets
The following table presents our Other Bets revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Other Bets revenues | $ | 288 | | | $ | 477 | | | $ | 595
Other Bets revenues as a percentage of total revenues | 0.3 | % | | 0.4 | % | | 0.4 | %

Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues and sales from internet and TV services as well as licensing and R&D services.
Our Other Bets revenues increased $118 million from 2017 to 2018 and increased $189 million from 2016 to 2017. These increases were primarily driven by revenues from sales of Access internet and TV services and revenues from Verily licensing and R&D services.
Revenues by Geography
The following table presents our revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the addresses of our customers:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
United States | 47 | % | | 47 | % | 46 | %
EMEA | 34 | % | | 33 | % | 33 | %
APAC | 14 | % | | 15 | % | 15 | %
Other Americas | 5 | % | | 5 | % | 6 | %

For the amounts of revenues by geography, please refer to Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Use of Constant Currency Revenues and Constant Currency Revenue Growth
The effect of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period to period comparisons. Our international revenues are favorably affected as the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other foreign currencies, and unfavorably affected as the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other foreign currencies. Our international revenues are also favorably affected by net hedging gains and unfavorably affected by net hedging losses.
We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues and constant currency revenue growth for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to GAAP results helps improve the ability to understand our performance because they exclude the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.
Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and use it to determine the constant currency revenue growth on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging effects realized in the current period.
Constant currency revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) is calculated by determining the increase in current period revenues over prior period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues of both periods.
These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.
30


Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents the foreign exchange effect on our international revenues and total revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
EMEA revenues | $ | 30,304 | | | $ | 36,046 | | | $ | 44,567 
Exclude foreign exchange effect on current period revenues using prior year rates | 1,291 | | | (5 | ) | | (1,325 | )
Exclude hedging effect recognized in current period | (479 | ) | | 190 | | | 172 | 
EMEA constant currency revenues | $ | 31,116 | | | $ | 36,231 | | | $ | 43,414 
Prior period EMEA revenues, excluding hedging effect | $ | 25,379 | | | $ | 29,825 | | | $ | 36,236 
EMEA revenue growth | | | 19 | % | | 24 | % 
EMEA constant currency revenue growth | | | 21 | % | | 20 | % 
APAC revenues | $ | 12,559 | | | $ | 16,235 | | | $ | 21,374 
Exclude foreign exchange effect on current period revenues using prior year rates | (362 | ) | | 26 | | | (49 | )
Exclude hedging effect recognized in current period | (31 | ) | | (43 | ) | | (33 | )
APAC constant currency revenues | $ | 12,166 | | | $ | 16,218 | | | $ | 21,292 
Prior period APAC revenues, excluding hedging effect | $ | 9,564 | | | $ | 12,528 | | | $ | 16,192 
APAC revenue growth | | | 29 | % | | 32 | % 
APAC constant currency revenue growth | | | 29 | % | | 31 | % 
Other Americas revenues | $ | 4,628 | | | $ | 6,125 | | | $ | 7,609 
Exclude foreign exchange effect on current period revenues using prior year rates | 344 | | | (148 | ) | | 404 | 
Exclude hedging effect recognized in current period | (29 | ) | | 22 | | | (1 | )
Other Americas constant currency revenues | $ | 4,943 | | | $ | 5,999 | | | $ | 8,012 
Prior period Other Americas revenues, excluding hedging effect | $ | 3,836 | | | $ | 4,599 | | | $ | 6,147 
Other Americas revenue growth | | | 32 | % | | 24 | % 
Other Americas constant currency revenue growth | | | 30 | % | | 30 | % 
United States revenues | $ | 42,781 | | | $ | 52,449 | | | $ | 63,269 
United States revenue growth | | | 23 | % | | 21 | % 
Total revenues | $ | 90,272 | | | $ | 110,855 | | | $ | 136,819
Total constant currency revenues | $ | 91,006 | | | $ | 110,897 | | | $ | 135,987
Total revenue growth | | | 23 | % | | 23 | % 
Total constant currency revenue growth | | | 24 | % | | 22 | % 

Our EMEA revenues and revenue growth from 2017 to 2018 were favorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Euro and British pound.
Our EMEA revenues and revenue growth from 2016 to 2017 were unfavorably affected by hedging losses. 
Our APAC revenues and revenue growth from 2017 to 2018 were favorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as well as hedging benefits, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Japanese yen, offset by the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Australian dollar. 
Our APAC revenues and revenue growth from 2016 to 2017 were slightly affected by hedging benefits and changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Japanese yen, offset by the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Australian dollar, Indian rupee, South Korean won, and Taiwanese dollar. 
31


Alphabet Inc.

Our Other Americas revenues and revenue growth from 2017 to 2018 were unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Brazilian real and Argentine peso. 
Our Other Americas revenues and revenue growth from 2016 to 2017 were favorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Brazilian real and Canadian dollar, offset by the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Argentine peso. 
Costs and Expenses
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of TAC which are paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
The cost of revenues related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network Members' properties are significantly higher than the cost of revenues related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google properties because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network Members’ properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network Members.
Additionally, other cost of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) includes the following:

• | Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);


• | Expenses associated with our data centers and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expenses (including stock-based compensation (SBC)), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and


• | Inventory related costs for hardware we sell.

The following tables present our cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
TAC | $ | 16,793 | | | $ | 21,672 | | | $ | 26,726
Other cost of revenues | 18,345 | | | 23,911 | | | 32,823 | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 35,138 | | | $ | 45,583 | | | $ | 59,549
Total cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues | 38.9 | % | | 41.1 | % | | 43.5 | %
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
TAC to distribution partners | $ | 5,894 | | | $ | 9,031 | | | $ | 12,572
TAC to distribution partners as a percentage of Google properties revenues(1) (Google properties TAC rate) | 9.2 | % | | 11.6 | % | | 13.1 | %
TAC to Google Network Members | $ | 10,899 | | | $ | 12,641 | | | $ | 14,154
TAC to Google Network Members as a percentage of Google Network Members' properties revenues(1) (Network Members TAC rate) | 69.9 | % | | 71.9 | % | | 70.8 | %
TAC | $ | 16,793 | | | $ | 21,672 | | | $ | 26,726
TAC as a percentage of advertising revenues(1) (Aggregate TAC rate) | 21.2 | % | | 22.7 | % | | 23.0 | %


(1) | Revenues include hedging gains (losses) which affect TAC rates.

Cost of revenues increased $13,966 million from 2017 to 2018. The increase was due to increases in TAC and other cost of revenues of $5,054 million and $8,912 million, respectively.
The increase in TAC to distribution partners from 2017 to 2018 was a result of an increase in Google properties revenues and the associated TAC rate. The increase in the Google properties TAC rate was driven by changes in partner agreements and the ongoing shift to mobile, which carries higher TAC because more mobile searches are 
32


Alphabet Inc.

channeled through paid access points. The increase in TAC to Google Network Members from 2017 to 2018 was a result of an increase in Google Network Members' properties revenues offset by a decrease in the associated TAC rate. The decrease in the Network Members TAC rate was primarily due to a shift to lower TAC products within programmatic advertising buying. The increase in the aggregate TAC rate from 2017 to 2018 was a result of an increase in Google properties TAC rate, partially offset by a favorable revenue mix shift from Google Network Members' properties to Google properties.
Other cost of revenues increased $8,912 million from 2017 to 2018. The increase was due to an increase in data center and other operations costs, which was affected by increased allocations primarily from general and administrative expenses; content acquisition costs as a result of increased activities related to YouTube; and hardware costs associated with new hardware launches.
Cost of revenues increased $10,445 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase was due to an increase in TAC of $4,879 million. The increase in TAC to distribution partners was a result of an increase in Google properties revenues and the associated TAC rate. The increase in TAC to Google Network Members was a result of an increase in Google Network Members' properties revenues and the associated TAC rate.
 The increase in the Google properties TAC rate was driven by changes in partner agreements and the ongoing shift to mobile, which carries higher TAC because more mobile searches are channeled through paid access points. The increase in the Network Members TAC rate was driven by the continued underlying shift in advertising buying from our traditional network business to programmatic advertising buying. The increase in the aggregate TAC rate was also partially offset by a favorable revenue mix shift from Google Network Members' properties to Google properties.
Other cost of revenues increased $5,566 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase was due to various factors, including an increase in data center and other operations costs, which include depreciation, compensation expenses (including SBC), energy, bandwidth, and other equipment costs as a result of business growth; hardware costs associated with new hardware launches; and content acquisition costs as a result of increased activities related to YouTube.
We expect cost of revenues to increase in dollar amount and as a percentage of total revenues in future periods based on a number of factors, including the following:

• | Google Network Members TAC rates, which are affected by a combination of factors such as geographic mix, product mix, revenue share terms, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies;


• | Google properties TAC rates, which are affected by changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms such as revenue share arrangements, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points;


• | Growth rates of expenses associated with our data centers and other operations, content acquisition costs, as well as our hardware inventory and related costs;


• | Higher cost of revenues associated with the increased proportion of non-advertising revenues relative to our advertising revenues; and


• | Relative revenue growth rates of Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties.

Research and Development
The following table presents our R&D expenses (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Research and development expenses | $ | 13,948 | | | $ | 16,625 | | | $ | 21,419
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues | 15.5 | % | | 15.0 | % | | 15.7 | %

R&D expenses consist primarily of:

• | Compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs for engineering and technical employees responsible for R&D of our existing and new products and services;


• | Depreciation expenses;


• | Equipment-related expenses; and


• | Professional services fees primarily related to consulting and outsourcing services.

R&D expenses increased $4,794 million from 2017 to 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $3,518 million, largely resulting from a 24% increase in headcount. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of $499 
33


Alphabet Inc.

million and $318 million, respectively, as well as an increase in professional services fees of $305 million due to additional expenses incurred for outsourced services and consulting. 
R&D expenses increased $2,677 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $1,886 million, largely resulting from a 16% increase in headcount. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation expenses of $323 million and equipment-related expenses of $246 million.
We expect that R&D expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods.
Sales and Marketing
The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Sales and marketing expenses | $ | 10,485 | | | $ | 12,893 | | | $ | 16,333
Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues | 11.6 | % | | 11.6 | % | | 11.9 | %

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of:

• | Advertising and promotional expenditures related to our products and services; and


• | Compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $3,440 million from 2017 to 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $1,418 million, largely resulting from a 12% increase in headcount. In addition, there was an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $1,233 million, largely resulting from increases in marketing and promotion-related expenses for our Cloud offerings and the Google Assistant.
Sales and marketing expenses increased $2,408 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $1,266 million, largely resulting from increases in marketing and promotion-related expenses for our hardware products, Cloud offerings, and YouTube. In addition, there was an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $853 million, largely resulting from a 6% increase in headcount.
We expect that sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods.
General and Administrative
The following table presents our general and administrative expenses (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
General and administrative expenses | $ | 6,985 | | | $ | 6,872 | | | $ | 8,126
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues | 7.7 | % | | 6.2 | % | | 5.9 | %

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of:

• | Compensation expenses (including SBC and accrued performance fees related to gains on securities) and facilities-related costs for employees in our facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations;


• | Depreciation;


• | Equipment-related expenses; and


• | Professional services fees primarily related to audit, information technology consulting, outside legal, and outsourcing services.

General and administrative expenses increased $1,254 million from 2017 to 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $1,660 million, largely resulting from accrued performance fees primarily related to gains on equity securities. The increase was offset by reduced allocations (with a corresponding net increase primarily in cost of revenues).
34


Alphabet Inc.

General and administrative expenses decreased $113 million from 2016 to 2017. The decrease was primarily from reduced allocations to general and administrative expenses with an offsetting increase to cost of revenues and other operating expenses. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in compensation expenses (including SBC) and facilities-related costs of $271 million, largely resulting from a 9% increase in headcount. Additionally, there was an increase in professional service fees of $253 million due to additional expenses incurred for outsourced services and consulting services.
We expect general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods. 
European Commission Fines
In June 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017) fine, which was accrued in the second quarter of 2017.
In July 2018, the EC announced its decision that certain provisions in Google's Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018) fine, which was accrued in the second quarter of 2018.
Please refer to Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table presents other income (expense), net, (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Other income (expense), net | $ | 434 | | | $ | 1,047 | | | $ | 8,592
Other income (expense), net, as a percentage of revenues | 0.5 | % | | 0.9 | % | | 6.3 | %

Other income (expense), net, increased $7,545 million from 2017 to 2018. This increase was primarily driven by unrealized gains on equity securities resulting from the adoption of a new accounting standard and the modification of the terms of a non-marketable debt security resulting in a recognized unrealized gain. 
Other income (expense), net, increased $613 million from 2016 to 2017. This increase was primarily driven by reduced costs of our foreign currency hedging activities, decreased losses on marketable securities and an increase in interest income.
We expect other income (expense), net, will fluctuate in dollar amount and percentage of revenues in future periods as it is largely driven by market dynamics. Beginning in 2018, changes in the value of marketable and non-marketable equity security investments are reflected in OI&E. Equity values generally change daily for marketable equity securities and upon the occurrence of observable price changes or upon impairment of non-marketable equity securities. In addition, volatility in the global economic climate and financial markets could result in a significant change in the value of our equity securities. Fluctuations in the value of these investments could contribute to the volatility of OI&E in future periods. For additional information about equity investments, please see Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Provision for Income Taxes
The following table presents our provision for income taxes (in millions) and effective tax rate:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Provision for income taxes | $ | 4,672 | | | $ | 14,531 | | | $ | 4,177
Effective tax rate | 19.3 | % | | 53.4 | % | | 12.0 | %

Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate decreased from 2017 to 2018, due to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) which was enacted in December 2017. Please refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
35


Alphabet Inc.

Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate increased from 2016 to 2017, due to the effects of the Tax Act related to the one time-transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax.
Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments, which are referred to as the global intangible low-taxed income tax and the base erosion tax, respectively.
Our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items.
Quarterly Results of Operations
The following tables presenting our quarterly results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have prepared the unaudited information on the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements. Our operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future quarters or for a full year. 
The following table presents our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2018. This table includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that we consider necessary for a fair presentation of our consolidated financial position and operating results for the quarters presented. Both seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business. Commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends have caused, and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates.

 | Quarter Ended 
 | Mar 31,2017 | | Jun 30,2017 | | Sept 30,2017 | | Dec 31,2017 | Mar 31,2018 | | Jun 30,2018 | Sept 30,2018 | | Dec 31,2018
 | (In millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: | | | | | | | 
Revenues | $ | 24,750 | | | $ | 26,010 | | $ | 27,772 | | $ | 32,323 | | | $ | 31,146 | | $ | 32,657 | $ | 33,740 | $ | 39,276
Costs and expenses: | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 9,795 | | | 10,373 | | | 11,148 | | 14,267 | | 13,467 | | | 13,883 | | | 14,281 | | 17,918
Research and development | 3,942 | | | 4,172 | | | 4,205 | | 4,306 | | 5,039 | | | 5,114 | | | 5,232 | | 6,034 
Sales and marketing | 2,644 | | | 2,897 | | | 3,042 | | 4,310 | | 3,604 | | | 3,780 | | | 3,849 | | 5,100 
General and administrative | 1,801 | | | 1,700 | | | 1,595 | | 1,776 | | 2,035 | | | 2,002 | | | 2,068 | | 2,021 
European Commission fines | 0 | | | 2,736 | | | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 5,071 | | | 0 | | 0 
Total costs and expenses | 18,182 | | | 21,878 | | | 19,990 | | 24,659 | | 24,145 | | | 29,850 | | | 25,430 | | 31,073
Income from operations | 6,568 | | | 4,132 | | | 7,782 | | 7,664 | | 7,001 | | | 2,807 | | | 8,310 | | 8,203 
Other income (expense), net | 251 | | | 245 | | | 197 | | 354 | | 3,542 | | | 1,408 | | | 1,773 | | 1,869 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes | 6,819 | | | 4,377 | | | 7,979 | | 8,018 | | 10,543 | | | 4,215 | | | 10,083 | | 10,072
Provision for income taxes | 1,393 | | | 853 | | | 1,247 | | 11,038 | | 1,142 | | | 1,020 | | | 891 | | 1,124 
Net income (loss) | $ | 5,426 | | | $ | 3,524 | | $ | 6,732 | | $ | (3,020 | ) | | $ | 9,401 | | $ | 3,195 | $ | 9,192 | $ | 8,948 
Basic net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 7.85 | | | $ | 5.09 | | $ | 9.71 | | $ | (4.35 | ) | | $ | 13.53 | | $ | 4.60 | $ | 13.21 | $ | 12.87 
Diluted net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 7.73 | | | $ | 5.01 | | $ | 9.57 | | $ | (4.35 | ) | | $ | 13.33 | | $ | 4.54 | $ | 13.06 | $ | 12.77 

Capital Resources and Liquidity
As of December 31, 2018, we had $109.1 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. From time to time, we may hold 
36


Alphabet Inc.

marketable equity securities obtained through acquisitions or strategic investments in private companies that subsequently go public.
In December 2017, the Tax Act was enacted and resulted in a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings. After 2017, our foreign earnings held by foreign subsidiaries are no longer subject to U.S. tax upon repatriation to the U.S. As of December 31, 2018, the remaining long-term tax payable related to the Tax Act of $7.4 billion is presented within income tax payable, non-current on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As permitted by the Tax Act, we will pay the transition tax in annual interest-free installments through 2025.
During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, the EC announced decisions that certain actions taken by Google infringed European competition law and imposed fines of €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017) and €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018), respectively. While under appeal, EC fines are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees in lieu of a cash payment for the respective fines. Please refer to Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.  
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from our operations. We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2018. We have $4.0 billion of revolving credit facilities expiring in July 2023 with no amounts outstanding. The interest rate for the credit facilities is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. We believe that our sources of funding will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements including capital expenditures, working capital requirements, potential acquisitions and other liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months. 
As of December 31, 2018, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 with a total carrying value of $4.0 billion. 
In 2016 and 2018, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $7.0 billion and $8.6 billion of its Class C capital stock, respectively. The 2016 authorization was completed in 2018. As of December 31, 2018, $1.7 billion remains available for repurchase. In January 2019, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $12.5 billion of our Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. Please refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to stock repurchases. 
The following table presents our cash flows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | 2018
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 36,036 | | $ | 37,091 | | $ | 47,971 | 
Net cash used in investing activities | $ | (31,165 | ) | $ | (31,401 | ) | $ | (28,504 | )
Net cash used in financing activities | $ | (8,332 | ) | $ | (8,298 | ) | $ | (13,179 | )

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Our largest source of cash provided by our operations are advertising revenues generated by Google properties and Google Network Members' properties. Additionally, we generate cash through sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees including fees received for Google Cloud offerings.
Our primary uses of cash from our operating activities include payments to our Google Network Members and distribution partners, and payments for content acquisition costs. In addition, uses of cash from operating activities include compensation and related costs, hardware inventory costs, other general corporate expenditures, and income taxes.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2017 to 2018 primarily due to increases in cash received from advertising revenues and Google other revenues (net of payouts to app developers), offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses.
37


Alphabet Inc.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2016 to 2017 primarily due to increases in cash received from advertising revenues and Google other revenues (net of payouts to app developers), offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues, operating expenses, and income taxes.
Cash Used in Investing Activities
Cash provided by or used in investing activities primarily consists of purchases of property and equipment; purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable and non-marketable securities; and payments for acquisitions.
Net cash used in investing activities decreased from 2017 to 2018 primarily due to a decrease in purchases of marketable securities. The decrease was partially offset by higher investments in land and buildings for offices and data centers, as well as, servers to provide capacity for the growth of our businesses. Generally, our investment in office facilities is driven by workforce needs; and our investment in data centers is driven by our compute and storage requirements and has a lead time of up to three years. Further, the decrease was partially offset by an increase in payments for acquisitions and a decrease in maturities and sales of marketable securities.
Net cash used in investing activities increased slightly from 2016 to 2017 primarily due to an increase in purchases of marketable securities and an increase in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by an increase in the maturities and sales of marketable securities, a decrease in cash collateral paid related to securities lending, and an increase in proceeds received from collections of notes receivables.
Cash Used in Financing Activities
Cash provided by or used in financing activities consists primarily of net proceeds or payments from stock-based award activities, repurchases of capital stock, and net proceeds or payments from issuance or repayments of debt.
Net cash used in financing activities increased from 2017 to 2018 primarily due to higher cash payments for repurchases of capital stock and stock-based award activities. 
Net cash used in financing activities decreased slightly from 2016 to 2017 primarily due to lower net cash payments from repayments and issuance of debt, partially offset by higher cash payments for repurchases of capital stock.
Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2018
The following summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 (in millions):

 | Payments Due By Period
 | Total | | Less than1 year | | 1-3years | | 3-5years | More than5 years
Operating lease obligations, net of sublease income amounts(1) | $ | 10,047 | | | $ | 1,303 | | $ | 2,711 | $ | 2,122 | $ | 3,911
Purchase obligations(2) | 7,433 | | | 5,132 | | | 1,407 | | 370 | 524 | 
Long-term debt obligations(3) | 4,689 | | | 134 | | | 1,220 | | 154 | 3,181 | 
Tax payable(4) | 7,440 | | | — | | | 2,029 | | 5,411 | — | 
Other long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet(5) | 2,443 | | | 341 | | | 638 | | 416 | 1,048 | 
Total contractual obligations | $ | 32,052 | | | $ | 6,910 | | $ | 8,005 | $ | 8,473 | $ | 8,664


(1) | For further information, refer to Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


(2) | Represents non-cancelable contractual obligations primarily related to information technology assets and data center operation costs; purchases of inventory; and digital media content licensing arrangements. The amounts included above represent the non-cancelable portion of agreements or the minimum cancellation fee. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of December 31, 2018. Excluded from the table above are open orders for purchases that support normal operations.


(3) | Represents our principal and interest payments. For further information on long-term debt, refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


(4) | Represents one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the Tax Act. For further information, refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Excluded from the table above are long-term taxes payable of $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2018 primarily related to uncertain tax positions, for which we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes.


(5) | Represents cash obligations recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, including the short-term portion of these long-term liabilities, primarily for the construction of offices and certain commercial agreements. These amounts do not include the EC fines which are classified as current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For further information regarding the

38


Alphabet Inc.

EC fines, refer to Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of December 31, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, gains and losses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations will be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors.
Please see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of significant accounting policies and the effect on our financial statements.
Revenues
For the sale of third-party goods and services, we evaluate whether we are the principal, and report revenues on a gross basis, or an agent, and report revenues on a net basis. In this assessment, we consider if we obtain control of the specified goods or services before they are transferred to the customer, as well as other indicators such as the party primarily responsible for fulfillment, inventory risk, and discretion in establishing price.
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes.
Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made. 
The provision for income taxes includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Loss Contingencies
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, non-income taxes, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood of there being, and the estimated amount of, a loss related to such matters. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. Should any 
39


Alphabet Inc.

of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 
Long-lived Assets
Long-lived assets, including property and equipment, long-term prepayments, and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows independent of other assets. An impairment loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows generated from the assets are less than their carrying amount. Measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value.
Valuation of Non-marketable Equity Securities
Beginning on January 1, 2018, our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are carried either at fair value or under the measurement alternative upon the adoption of ASU 2016-01. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value is measured at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. Determining whether an observed transaction is similar to a security within our portfolio requires judgment based on the rights and obligations of the securities. Recording upward and downward adjustments to the carrying value of our equity securities as a result of observable price changes requires quantitative assessments of the fair value of our securities using various valuation methodologies and involves the use of estimates. 
Non-marketable equity securities are also subject to periodic impairment reviews. Our quarterly impairment analysis considers both qualitative and quantitative factors that may have a significant effect on the investment's fair value. Qualitative factors considered include industry and market conditions, financial performance, business prospects, and other relevant events and factors. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare quantitative assessments of the fair value of our equity investments using both the market and income approaches which require judgment and the use of estimates, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data of private and public companies, among others. When our assessment indicates that an impairment exists, we measure our non-marketable securities at fair value.

ITEM 7A. | QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity investment risks.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We transact business globally in multiple currencies. Our international revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro and Japanese yen. For the purpose of analyzing foreign currency exchange risk, we considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% could be experienced in the near term.
We use foreign exchange forward contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the subsidiary. These forward contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on the assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which are offset by the gains and losses on the forward contracts.
If an adverse 10% foreign currency exchange rate change was applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currencies at the balance sheet dates, it would have resulted in an adverse effect on income before income taxes of approximately $52 million and $1 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. The adverse effect as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 is after consideration of the offsetting effect of approximately $374 million for both periods from foreign exchange contracts in place for the months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018.
We use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) to protect our forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency options and forwards reduce the foreign currency losses related to our earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency collars and forwards offset the foreign currency gains related to our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but do 
40


Alphabet Inc.

not entirely eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. We reflect the gains or losses of foreign currency spot rate changes as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassify them into revenues to offset the hedged exposures as they occur. 
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10% as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018, the amount recorded in AOCI related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been approximately $950 million and $772 million lower as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The change in the value recorded in AOCI would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in forecasted hedged revenues when recognized.
During 2018, we entered into foreign exchange forward contracts designated as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to our investment in foreign subsidiaries. These forward contracts serve to offset the foreign currency translation risk from our foreign operations.
If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10%, the amount recorded in cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) within AOCI related to our net investment hedge would have been approximately $635 million lower as of December 31, 2018. The change in value recorded in CTA would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency translation gain or loss from our investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Interest Rate Risk
Our investment strategy is to achieve a return that will allow us to preserve capital and maintain liquidity requirements. We invest primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. By policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Unrealized gains or losses on our marketable debt securities are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations as a result of higher market interest rates compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. We account for both fixed and variable rate securities at fair value with gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold. 
We use value-at-risk (VaR) analysis to determine the potential effect of fluctuations in interest rates on the value of our marketable debt security portfolio. The VaR is the expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due to adverse movements in interest rates. We use a variance/covariance VaR model with 95% confidence interval. The estimated one-day loss in fair value of our marketable debt securities as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 are shown below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, | | 12-Month Average As of December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018 | 2017 | | 2018
Risk Category - Interest Rate | $ | 84 | | $ | 58 | | $ | 87 | $ | 66

Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes in interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. VaR analysis is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation.
Equity Investment Risk
Our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are subject to a wide variety of market‑related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings.
Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks or funds and our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages.
We record our marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method at fair value based on readily determinable market values, of which publicly traded stocks and mutual funds are subject to market price volatility, and represent $1.2 billion of our investments as of December 31, 2018. A hypothetical adverse price change of 10%, which could be experienced in the near term, would decrease the fair value of our marketable equity securities by $120 million. 
Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment (referred to as the 
41


Alphabet Inc.

measurement alternative). The fair value is measured at the time of the observable transaction, which is not necessarily an indication of the current fair value as of the balance sheet date. These investments, especially those that are in the early stages, are inherently risky because the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early phases and may never materialize and they may experience a decline in financial condition, which could result in a loss of a substantial part of our investment in these companies. The success of our investment in any private company is also typically dependent on the likelihood of our ability to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as public offerings, acquisitions, private sales or other favorable market events reflecting appreciation to the cost of our initial investment. As of December 31, 2018, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities, which were accounted for under the measurement alternative, was $12.3 billion. Valuations of our equity investments in private companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. Volatility in the global economic climate and financial markets could result in a significant impairment charge on our non-marketable equity securities. 
The carrying values of our equity method investments generally do not fluctuate based on market price changes, however these investments could be impaired if the carrying value exceeds the fair value.
For further information about our equity investments, please refer to Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
42


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 8. | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Alphabet Inc.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 | Page
Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 44 
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 46 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 47 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 48 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 49 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 50 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 51 

The supplementary financial information required by this Item 8 is included in Item 7 under the caption “Quarterly Results of Operations.”
43


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)2 (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2017 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 4, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Adoption of New Accounting Standard
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method for accounting for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of certain equity securities in the year ended December 31, 2018.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP 
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1999.
San Jose, California 
February 4, 2019 

44


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Alphabet Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Alphabet Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the 2018 consolidated financial statements of the Company and our report dated February 4, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon that included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company’s adoption of a new accounting standard for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of certain equity securities in the year ended December 31, 2018.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitation of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 4, 2019 

45


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands, and par value per share amounts)

 | As of December 31, 2017 | | As ofDecember 31, 2018
Assets | | | 
Current assets: | | | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 10,715 | | | $ | 16,701 
Marketable securities | 91,156 | | | 92,439 | 
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | 101,871 | | | 109,140 | 
Accounts receivable, net of allowance of $674 and $729 | 18,336 | | | 20,838 | 
Income taxes receivable, net | 369 | | | 355 | 
Inventory | 749 | | | 1,107 | 
Other current assets | 2,983 | | | 4,236 | 
Total current assets | 124,308 | | | 135,676 | 
Non-marketable investments | 7,813 | | | 13,859 | 
Deferred income taxes | 680 | | | 737 | 
Property and equipment, net | 42,383 | | | 59,719 | 
Intangible assets, net | 2,692 | | | 2,220 | 
Goodwill | 16,747 | | | 17,888 | 
Other non-current assets | 2,672 | | | 2,693 | 
Total assets | $ | 197,295 | | | $ | 232,792
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity | | | 
Current liabilities: | | | 
Accounts payable | $ | 3,137 | | | $ | 4,378 
Accrued compensation and benefits | 4,581 | | | 6,839 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 10,177 | | | 16,958 | 
Accrued revenue share | 3,975 | | | 4,592 | 
Deferred revenue | 1,432 | | | 1,784 | 
Income taxes payable, net | 881 | | | 69 | 
Total current liabilities | 24,183 | | | 34,620 | 
Long-term debt | 3,969 | | | 4,012 | 
Deferred revenue, non-current | 340 | | | 396 | 
Income taxes payable, non-current | 12,812 | | | 11,327 | 
Deferred income taxes | 430 | | | 1,264 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 3,059 | | | 3,545 | 
Total liabilities | 44,793 | | | 55,164 | 
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 9) | | | | 
Stockholders’ equity: | | | 
Convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share, 100,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding | 0 | | | 0 | 
Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.001 par value per share: 15,000,000 shares authorized (Class A 9,000,000, Class B 3,000,000, Class C 3,000,000); 694,783 (Class A 298,470, Class B 46,972, Class C 349,341) and 695,556 (Class A 299,242, Class B 46,636, Class C 349,678) shares issued and outstanding | 40,247 | | | 45,049 | 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss | (992 | ) | | (2,306 | )
Retained earnings | 113,247 | | | 134,885 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 152,502 | | | 177,628 | 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity | $ | 197,295 | | | $ | 232,792

See accompanying notes.
46


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Revenues | $ | 90,272 | | | $ | 110,855 | | $ | 136,819
Costs and expenses: | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 35,138 | | | 45,583 | | | 59,549 
Research and development | 13,948 | | | 16,625 | | | 21,419 
Sales and marketing | 10,485 | | | 12,893 | | | 16,333 
General and administrative | 6,985 | | | 6,872 | | | 8,126 
European Commission fines | 0 | | | 2,736 | | | 5,071 
Total costs and expenses | 66,556 | | | 84,709 | | | 110,498
Income from operations | 23,716 | | | 26,146 | | | 26,321 
Other income (expense), net | 434 | | | 1,047 | | | 8,592 
Income before income taxes | 24,150 | | | 27,193 | | | 34,913 
Provision for income taxes | 4,672 | | | 14,531 | | | 4,177 
Net income | $ | 19,478 | | | $ | 12,662 | | $ | 30,736 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 28.32 | | | $ | 18.27 | | $ | 44.22 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 27.85 | | | $ | 18.00 | | $ | 43.70 

See accompanying notes.
47


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Net income | $ | 19,478 | | | $ | 12,662 | | | $ | 30,736
Other comprehensive income (loss): | | | | | 
Change in foreign currency translation adjustment | (599 | ) | | 1,543 | | | (781 | )
Available-for-sale investments: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | (314 | ) | | 307 | | | 88 | 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | 221 | | | 105 | | | (911 | )
Net change (net of tax effect of $0, $0, and $156) | (93 | ) | | 412 | | | (823 | )
Cash flow hedges: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 515 | | | (638 | ) | | 290 | 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (351 | ) | | 93 | | | 98 | 
Net change (net of tax effect of $64, $247, and $103) | 164 | | | (545 | ) | | 388 | 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (528 | ) | | 1,410 | | | (1,216 | )
Comprehensive income | $ | 18,950 | | | $ | 14,072 | | | $ | 29,520

See accompanying notes.
48


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands)

 | Class A and Class BCommon Stock, Class C Capital Stock andAdditional Paid-In Capital | | AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss) | | RetainedEarnings | TotalStockholders’Equity
 | Shares | | Amount | 
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | 687,348 | | | $ | 32,982 | | $ | (1,874 | ) | | $ | 89,223 | | $ | 120,331
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 180 | | 0 | | | (133 | ) | | 47 | 
Common and capital stock issued | 9,106 | | | 298 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 298 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | | 6,700 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 6,700 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | 0 | | | (3,597 | ) | 0 | | | 0 | | | (3,597 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | (5,161 | ) | | (256 | ) | 0 | | | (3,437 | ) | | (3,693 | )
Net income | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | 19,478 | | | 19,478 | 
Other comprehensive loss | 0 | | | 0 | | (528 | ) | | 0 | | | (528 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2016 | 691,293 | | | 36,307 | | (2,402 | ) | | 105,131 | | | 139,036 | 
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | (15 | ) | | (15 | )
Common and capital stock issued | 8,652 | | | 212 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 212 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | | 7,694 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 7,694 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | 0 | | | (4,373 | ) | 0 | | | 0 | | | (4,373 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | (5,162 | ) | | (315 | ) | 0 | | | (4,531 | ) | | (4,846 | )
Sale of subsidiary shares | 0 | | | 722 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 722 | 
Net income | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | 12,662 | | | 12,662 | 
Other comprehensive income | 0 | | | 0 | | 1,410 | | | 0 | | | 1,410 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2017 | 694,783 | | | 40,247 | | (992 | ) | | 113,247 | | | 152,502 | 
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 0 | | (98 | ) | | (599 | ) | | (697 | )
Common and capital stock issued | 8,975 | | | 148 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 148 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | | 9,353 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 9,353 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units and other | 0 | | | (4,782 | ) | 0 | | | 0 | | | (4,782 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | (8,202 | ) | | (576 | ) | 0 | | | (8,499 | ) | | (9,075 | )
Sale of subsidiary shares | 0 | | | 659 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 659 | 
Net income | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | 30,736 | | | 30,736 | 
Other comprehensive loss | 0 | | | 0 | | (1,216 | ) | | 0 | | | (1,216 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2018 | 695,556 | | | $ | 45,049 | | $ | (2,306 | ) | | $ | 134,885 | | $ | 177,628

See accompanying notes.
49


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Operating activities | | | | | 
Net income | $ | 19,478 | | | $ | 12,662 | | | $ | 30,736
Adjustments: | | | | | 
Depreciation and impairment of property and equipment | 5,267 | | | 6,103 | | | 8,164 | 
Amortization and impairment of intangible assets | 877 | | | 812 | | | 871 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 6,703 | | | 7,679 | | | 9,353 | 
Deferred income taxes | (38 | ) | | 258 | | | 778 | 
(Gain) loss on debt and equity securities, net | 73 | | | 37 | | | (6,650 | )
Other | 376 | | | 294 | | | (189 | )
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions: | | | | | 
Accounts receivable | (2,578 | ) | | (3,768 | ) | | (2,169 | )
Income taxes, net | 3,125 | | | 8,211 | | | (2,251 | )
Other assets | 312 | | | (2,164 | ) | | (1,207 | )
Accounts payable | 110 | | | 731 | | | 1,067 | 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities | 1,515 | | | 4,891 | | | 8,614 | 
Accrued revenue share | 593 | | | 955 | | | 483 | 
Deferred revenue | 223 | | | 390 | | | 371 | 
Net cash provided by operating activities | 36,036 | | | 37,091 | | | 47,971 | 
Investing activities | | | | | 
Purchases of property and equipment | (10,212 | ) | | (13,184 | ) | | (25,139 | )
Proceeds from disposals of property and equipment | 240 | | | 99 | | | 98 | 
Purchases of marketable securities | (84,509 | ) | | (92,195 | ) | | (50,158 | )
Maturities and sales of marketable securities | 66,895 | | | 73,959 | | | 48,507 | 
Purchases of non-marketable investments | (1,109 | ) | | (1,745 | ) | | (2,073 | )
Maturities and sales of non-marketable investments | 494 | | | 533 | | | 1,752 | 
Cash collateral related to securities lending | (2,428 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Investments in reverse repurchase agreements | 450 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible assets | (986 | ) | | (287 | ) | | (1,491 | )
Proceeds from collection of notes receivable | 0 | | | 1,419 | | | 0 | 
Net cash used in investing activities | (31,165 | ) | | (31,401 | ) | | (28,504 | )
Financing activities | | | | | 
Net payments related to stock-based award activities | (3,304 | ) | | (4,166 | ) | | (4,993 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | (3,693 | ) | | (4,846 | ) | | (9,075 | )
Proceeds from issuance of debt, net of costs | 8,729 | | | 4,291 | | | 6,766 | 
Repayments of debt | (10,064 | ) | | (4,377 | ) | | (6,827 | )
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary shares | 0 | | | 800 | | | 950 | 
Net cash used in financing activities | (8,332 | ) | | (8,298 | ) | | (13,179 | )
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents | (170 | ) | | 405 | | | (302 | )
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents | (3,631 | ) | | (2,203 | ) | | 5,986 | 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period | 16,549 | | | 12,918 | | | 10,715 | 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period | $ | 12,918 | | | $ | 10,715 | | | $ | 16,701
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information | | | | | 
Cash paid for taxes, net of refunds | $ | 1,643 | | | $ | 6,191 | | | $ | 5,671 
Cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized | $ | 84 | | | $ | 84 | | | $ | 69 

See accompanying notes.
50


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Nature of Operations
Google was incorporated in California in September 1998 and re-incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2003. In 2015, we implemented a holding company reorganization, and as a result, Alphabet Inc. (Alphabet) became the successor issuer to Google.
We generate revenues primarily by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet include the accounts of Alphabet and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models. Noncontrolling interests are not presented separately as the amounts are not material. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. 
Use of Estimates
Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the bad debt allowance, sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, income taxes, and contingent liabilities, among others. We base our estimates on assumptions, both historical and forward looking, that are believed to be reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenues when we transfer control of promised goods or services to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
See Note 2 for further discussion on Revenues.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of TAC and other costs of revenues. 
TAC represents the amounts paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
Other costs of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) include the following:

• | Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);


• | Expenses associated with our data centers and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expense (including SBC), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and


• | Inventory related costs for hardware we sell.

Stock-based Compensation
Stock-based compensation primarily consists of Alphabet restricted stock units (RSUs). RSUs are equity classified and measured at the fair market value of the underlying stock at the grant date. We recognize RSU expense using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period and account for forfeitures as they occur.
For RSUs, shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the applicable statutory tax withholding to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, fewer shares are issued than the number of RSUs outstanding. We record a liability for the tax withholding to be paid by us as a reduction to additional paid-in capital.
Additionally, stock-based compensation includes other types of stock-based awards that may be settled in the stock of certain of our Other Bets or in cash. Awards that are liability classified are remeasured at fair value through settlement or maturity. The fair value of such awards is based on the valuation of equity of the respective Other Bet.
51


Alphabet Inc.

Performance Fees
We have compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized investment returns. We recognize compensation expense based on the estimated payouts.
Certain Risks and Concentrations
Our revenues are primarily derived from online advertising, the market for which is highly competitive and rapidly changing. In addition, our revenues are generated from a multitude of vertical market segments in countries around the world. Significant changes in this industry or changes in customer buying or advertiser spending behavior could adversely affect our operating results.
We are subject to concentrations of credit risk principally from cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. Cash equivalents and marketable securities consist primarily of time deposits, money market and other funds, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments issued by foreign governments, debt instruments issued by municipalities in the U.S., corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from customers located around the world. We perform ongoing evaluations to determine customer credit and we limit the amount of credit we extend. We generally do not require collateral from our customers. We maintain reserves for estimated credit losses and these losses have generally been within our expectations.
No individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than 10% of our revenues in 2016, 2017, or 2018. In 2016, 2017, and 2018, we generated approximately 47%, 47%, and 46% of our revenues, respectively, from customers based in the U.S. See Note 2 for further details.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative contracts, and non-marketable debt securities. Our financial assets that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include non-marketable equity securities measured at fair value when observable price changes are identified or when non-marketable equity securities are impaired. Other financial assets and liabilities are carried at cost with fair value disclosed, if required.
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured and classified in accordance with a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the observability of the inputs available in the market used to measure fair value:
Level 1 - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2 - Inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activities.
The fair value hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. 
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
We invest all excess cash primarily in government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, time deposits, and money market funds.
We classify all investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and have stated maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase as cash equivalents and those with stated maturities of greater than three months as marketable securities.
We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. We have classified and accounted for our marketable debt securities as available-for-sale. After consideration of our risk versus reward objectives, as well as our liquidity requirements, we may sell these debt securities prior to their stated maturities. As we view these securities as available 
52


Alphabet Inc.

to support current operations, we classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond 12 months as current assets under the caption marketable securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We carry these securities at fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, as a component of stockholders’ equity, except for unrealized losses determined to be other-than-temporary, which we record within other income (expense), net. We determine any realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable debt securities on a specific identification method, and we record such gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net.
Non-Marketable Investments
We account for non-marketable equity investments through which we exercise significant influence but do not have control over the investee under the equity method. Beginning on January 1, 2018, our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are either carried at fair value or under the measurement alternative upon the adoption of ASU 2016-01. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value is measured at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. Adjustments are determined primarily based on a market approach as of the transaction date. We classify our non-marketable investments as non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as those investments do not have stated contractual maturity dates.
We account for our non-marketable investments that meet the definition of a debt security as available-for-sale securities. 
Impairment of Investments
We periodically review our debt and equity investments for impairment. For debt securities we consider the duration, severity and the reason for the decline in security value; whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis; or if the amortized cost basis cannot be recovered as a result of credit losses. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the security to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net. For equity securities we consider impairment indicators such as negative changes in industry and market conditions, financial performance, business prospects, and other relevant events and factors. If indicators exist and the fair value of the security is below the carrying amount, we write down the security to fair value. 
Variable Interest Entities
We determine at the inception of each arrangement whether an entity in which we have made an investment or in which we have other variable interests in is considered a variable interest entity (VIE). We consolidate VIEs when we are the primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that meets both of the following criteria: (1) has the power to make decisions that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE; and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE. Periodically, we assess whether any changes in our interest or relationship with the entity affect our determination of whether the entity is still a VIE and, if so, whether we are the primary beneficiary. If we are not the primary beneficiary in a VIE, we account for the investment or other variable interests in a VIE in accordance with applicable GAAP.
Accounts Receivable
We record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to reserve for potentially uncollectible receivables. We review the accounts receivable by amounts due from customers that are past due to identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. In determining the amount of the reserve, we make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment includes the following categories: land and buildings, information technology assets, construction in progress, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. Land and buildings include land, offices, data centers and related building improvements. Information technology assets include servers and network equipment. We account for property and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation. We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. We depreciate buildings over periods of seven to 25 years. We generally depreciate information technology assets over periods of three to five years (specifically, three years for servers and three to five years for network equipment).
We depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets. Construction in progress is the construction or development of property and equipment that have not yet been placed in service for our intended use. Depreciation for equipment, buildings, and leasehold improvements commences once they are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated.
53


Alphabet Inc.

Inventory
Inventory consists primarily of finished goods and is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is computed using the first-in, first-out method.
Software Development Costs
We expense software development costs, including costs to develop software products or the software component of products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, before technological feasibility is reached. Technological feasibility is typically reached shortly before the release of such products and as a result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented.
Software development costs also include costs to develop software to be used solely to meet internal needs and cloud based applications used to deliver our services. We capitalize development costs related to these software applications once the preliminary project stage is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented.
Business Combinations
We include the results of operations of the businesses that we acquire as of the acquisition date. We allocate the purchase price of the acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred.
Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets
We review property and equipment, long-term prepayments and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets or the asset group are expected to generate. If the carrying value of the assets are not recoverable, the impairment recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. Impairments were not material for the periods presented.
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the expected benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairments were not material for the periods presented.
Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We amortize intangible assets on a straight-line basis with definite lives over periods ranging from one to twelve years.
Income Taxes
We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which we recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based on provisions of enacted tax law. We evaluate the realization of our deferred tax assets based on all available evidence and establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will not be realized.
We recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not that, based on technical merits, the position will be sustained upon examination. The tax benefits of the position recognized in the financial statements are then measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. In addition, we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the income tax provision.
Foreign Currency
Generally, the functional currency of our international subsidiaries is the local currency. We translate the financial statements of these subsidiaries to U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. We record translation gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) as a component of stockholders’ equity. We reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion of the transaction currency to functional currency as a component of foreign currency exchange losses in other income (expense), net.
54


Alphabet Inc.

Advertising and Promotional Expenses
We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $3.9 billion, $5.1 billion, and $6.4 billion, respectively.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 (Topic 842) "Leases." Topic 842 supersedes the lease requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 840, "Leases." Under Topic 842, lessees are required to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most leases and provide enhanced disclosures. Leases will continue to be classified as either finance or operating. We will adopt Topic 842 effective January 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective method and will not restate comparative periods. As permitted under the transition guidance, we will carry forward the assessment of whether our contracts contain or are leases, classification of our leases and remaining lease terms. Based on our portfolio of leases as of December 31, 2018, approximately $9 billion of lease assets and liabilities will be recognized on our balance sheet upon adoption, primarily relating to real estate. We are substantially complete with our implementation efforts. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 (ASU 2016-13) "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" which requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost. ASU 2016-13 replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss model which requires the use of forward-looking information to calculate credit loss estimates. It also eliminates the concept of other-than-temporary impairment and requires credit losses related to available-for-sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction in the amortized cost basis of the securities. These changes will result in earlier recognition of credit losses. We will adopt ASU 2016-13 effective January 1, 2020. We are currently evaluating the effect of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements. The effect will largely depend on the composition and credit quality of our investment portfolio and the economic conditions at the time of adoption.
Recently adopted accounting pronouncements
In January 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01 (ASU 2016-01) "Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities," which amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. We adopted ASU 2016-01 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for our marketable equity securities and the prospective method for our non-marketable equity securities. This resulted in a $98 million reclassification of net unrealized gains from AOCI to opening retained earnings. We have elected to use the measurement alternative for our non-marketable equity securities, defined as cost adjusted for changes from observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer, less impairment. The adoption of ASU 2016-01 increases the volatility of our other income (expense), net, as a result of the unrealized gain or loss from the remeasurement of our equity securities. For further information on unrealized gains from equity securities, see Note 3.
In October 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-16 (ASU 2016-16) "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory." ASU 2016-16 generally accelerates the recognition of income tax consequences for asset transfers between entities under common control. We adopted ASU 2016-16 as of January 1, 2018 using a modified retrospective transition method, resulting in a $701 million reclassification of prepaid income taxes related to asset transfers that occurred prior to adoption from other current and non-current assets to opening retained earnings.
Prior Period Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
Note 2. Revenues
Adoption of ASC Topic 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers"
On January 1, 2017, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2017. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2017 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605. The effect from the adoption of ASC 606 was not material to our financial statements. 
55


Alphabet Inc.

Revenue Recognition
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by revenue source (in millions). Sales and usage-based taxes are excluded from revenues.

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016(1) | | 2017 | | 2018
Google properties | $ | 63,785 | | | $ | 77,788 | | $ | 96,336 
Google Network Members' properties | 15,598 | | | 17,587 | | | 19,982 
Google advertising revenues | 79,383 | | | 95,375 | | | 116,318
Google other revenues | 10,601 | | | 15,003 | | | 19,906 
Other Bets revenues | 288 | | | 477 | | | 595 
Total revenues(2) | $ | 90,272 | | | $ | 110,855 | | $ | 136,819


(1) | As noted above, prior period amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method.


(2) | Revenues include hedging gains (losses) of $539 million, $(169) million, and $(138) million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively, which do not represent revenues recognized from contracts with customers.

The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the addresses of our customers (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
United States | $ | 42,781 | | | 47 | % | | $ | 52,449 | | 47 | % | $ | 63,269 | 46 | %
EMEA(1) | 30,304 | | | 34 | | | 36,046 | | | 33 | | 44,567 | | 33 
APAC(1) | 12,559 | | | 14 | | | 16,235 | | | 15 | | 21,374 | | 15 
Other Americas(1) | 4,628 | | | 5 | | | 6,125 | | | 5 | | 7,609 | | 6 
Total revenues(2) | $ | 90,272 | | | 100 | % | | $ | 110,855 | | 100 | % | $ | 136,819 | 100 | %


(1) | Regions represent Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific (APAC); and Canada and Latin America (Other Americas).


(2) | Revenues include hedging gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018.

Advertising Revenues
We generate revenues primarily by delivering advertising on Google properties and Google Network Members’ properties.
Google properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated on Google.com, the Google Search app, and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, and YouTube.
Google Network Members’ properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated on Google Network Members’ properties.
Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through Google Ads (formerly AdWords), Google Ad Manager as part of the Authorized Buyers marketplace (formerly DoubleClick AdExchange), and Google Marketing Platform (includes what was formerly DoubleClick Bid Manager), among others.
We offer advertising on a cost-per-click basis, which means that an advertiser pays us only when a user clicks on an ad on Google properties or Google Network Members' properties or when a user views certain YouTube engagement ads. For these customers, we recognize revenue each time a user clicks on the ad or when a user views the ad for a specified period of time.
We also offer advertising on other bases such as cost-per-impression, which means an advertiser pays us based on the number of times their ads are displayed on Google properties or Google Network Members’ properties. For these customers, we recognize revenue each time an ad is displayed.
For ads placed on Google Network Members’ properties, we evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis). Generally, we report advertising revenues for ads placed on Google Network Members’ properties on a gross basis, that is, the amounts billed to our customers 
56


Alphabet Inc.

are recorded as revenues, and amounts paid to Google Network Members are recorded as cost of revenues. Where we are the principal, we control the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers. Our control is evidenced by our sole ability to monetize the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers, and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing. 
Other Revenues
Google other revenues and Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues from:

• | Apps, in-app purchases, and digital content in the Google Play store;


• | Google Cloud offerings;


• | Hardware; and


• | Other miscellaneous products and services.

As it relates to Google other revenues, the most significant judgment is determining whether we are the principal or agent for app sales and in-app purchases through the Google Play store. We report revenues from these transactions on a net basis because our performance obligation is to facilitate a transaction between app developers and end users, for which we earn a commission. Consequently, the portion of the gross amount billed to end users that is remitted to app developers is not reflected as revenues.
Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations
Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We generally determine standalone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus margin.
Customer Incentives and Credits
Certain customers may receive cash-based incentives or credits, which are accounted for as variable consideration. We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenues recognized. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration.
Deferred Revenues
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance, including amounts which are refundable. The increase in the deferred revenue balance for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 is primarily driven by cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, offset by $1.5 billion of revenues recognized that were included in the deferred revenue balance as of December 31, 2017.
Our payment terms vary by the type and location of our customer and the products or services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
Practical Expedients and Exemptions
We generally expense sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses.
We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed.
Note 3. Financial Instruments
Debt Securities
We classify our marketable debt securities within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we use quoted market prices to the extent available or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs to determine fair value. In January 2018, we reclassified our U.S. government notes included in marketable debt securities from Level 1 to Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy as these securities are priced based on a combination of quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in active markets and models with significant observable market inputs. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation. The vast majority of our government bond holdings are highly liquid U.S. government notes.
We classify our non-marketable debt securities within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because they are preferred stock and convertible notes issued by private companies without quoted market prices. To estimate the fair value of 
57


Alphabet Inc.

our non-marketable debt securities, we use a combination of valuation methodologies, including market and income approaches based on prior transaction prices; estimated timing, probability, and amount of cash flows; and illiquidity considerations. Financial information of private companies may not be available and consequently we estimate the fair value based on the best available information at the measurement date. 
 The following tables summarize our debt securities by significant investment categories as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2017 | | 
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities | Non-MarketableSecurities
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | $ | 359 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 359 | | $ | 357 | | $ | 2 | $ | 0 
Government bonds(2) | 51,548 | | | 10 | | | (406 | ) | | 51,152 | | 1,241 | | 49,911 | | | 0 
Corporate debt securities | 24,269 | | | 21 | | | (135 | ) | | 24,155 | | 126 | | 24,029 | | | 0 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 16,789 | | | 13 | | | (180 | ) | | 16,622 | | 0 | | 16,622 | | | 0 
 | 92,965 | | | 44 | | | (721 | ) | | 92,288 | | 1,724 | | 90,564 | | | 0 
Level 3: | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Non-marketable debt securities | 1,083 | | | 811 | | | 0 | | | 1,894 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 1,894
Total | $ | 94,048 | | | $ | 855 | | | $ | (721 | ) | $ | 94,182 | | $ | 1,724 | | $ | 90,564 | $ | 1,894


 | As of December 31, 2018 | | 
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities | Non-MarketableSecurities
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | $ | 2,202 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 2,202 | | $ | 2,202 | | $ | 0 | $ | 0 
Government bonds(2) | 53,634 | | | 71 | | | (414 | ) | | 53,291 | | 3,717 | | 49,574 | | | 0 
Corporate debt securities | 25,383 | | | 15 | | | (316 | ) | | 25,082 | | 44 | | 25,038 | | | 0 
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 16,918 | | | 11 | | | (324 | ) | | 16,605 | | 0 | | 16,605 | | | 0 
 | 98,137 | | | 97 | | | (1,054 | ) | | 97,180 | | 5,963 | | 91,217 | | | 0 
Level 3: | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Non-marketable debt securities | 147 | | | 116 | | | 0 | | | 263 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 263
Total | $ | 98,284 | | | $ | 213 | | | $ | (1,054 | ) | $ | 97,443 | | $ | 5,963 | | $ | 91,217 | $ | 263


(1) | As of December 31, 2017, the majority of our time deposits were foreign deposits. As of December 31, 2018, the majority of our time deposits are domestic deposits.


(2) | Government bonds are comprised primarily of U.S. government notes, and also includes U.S. government agencies, foreign government bonds, and municipal securities.

We determine realized gains or losses on the sale or extinguishment of debt securities on a specific identification method. We recognized gross realized gains of $251 million, $185 million, and $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively. We recognized gross realized losses of $304 million, $295 million, and $143 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively. We reflect these gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of our investments in marketable debt securities with stated contractual maturity dates, accounted for as available-for-sale securities and classified by the contractual maturity date of the securities (in millions):
58


Alphabet Inc.


 | As ofDecember 31, 2018
Due in 1 year | $ | 23,669
Due in 1 year through 5 years | 54,504 | 
Due in 5 years through 10 years | 2,236 | 
Due after 10 years | 10,808 | 
Total | $ | 91,217

The following tables present gross unrealized losses and fair values for those investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, aggregated by investment category and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2017
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds(1) | $ | 28,836 | | | $ | (211 | ) | $ | 17,660 | | $ | (195 | ) | | $ | 46,496 | $ | (406 | )
Corporate debt securities | 18,300 | | | (114 | ) | | 1,710 | | (21 | ) | 20,010 | | | (135 | )
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 11,061 | | | (105 | ) | | 3,449 | | (75 | ) | 14,510 | | | (180 | )
Total | $ | 58,197 | | | $ | (430 | ) | $ | 22,819 | | $ | (291 | ) | | $ | 81,016 | $ | (721 | )


 | As of December 31, 2018
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
Government bonds(1) | $ | 12,019 | | | $ | (85 | ) | $ | 23,877 | | $ | (329 | ) | | $ | 35,896 | $ | (414 | )
Corporate debt securities | 10,171 | | | (107 | ) | | 11,545 | | (209 | ) | 21,716 | | | (316 | )
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities | 5,534 | | | (75 | ) | | 8,519 | | (249 | ) | 14,053 | | | (324 | )
Total | $ | 27,724 | | | $ | (267 | ) | $ | 43,941 | | $ | (787 | ) | | $ | 71,665 | $ | (1,054 | )


(1) | Government bonds are comprised primarily of U.S. government notes, and also includes U.S. government agencies, foreign government bonds, and municipal securities.

During the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, we did not recognize any significant other-than-temporary impairment losses. Losses on impairment are included as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 6 for further details on other income (expense), net.
The following table presents a reconciliation for our non-marketable debt securities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018
Beginning balance | $ | 1,165 | | | $ | 1,894
Total net gains (losses) | | | 
Included in earnings | (10 | ) | | 603 | 
Included in other comprehensive income | 707 | | | (1 | )
Purchases | 88 | | | 47 | 
Sales | (2 | ) | | (52 | )
Settlements(1) | (54 | ) | | (2,228 | )
Ending balance | $ | 1,894 | | | $ | 263 


(1) | During the year ended December 31, 2018 the terms of a non-marketable debt security were modified resulting in an unrealized $1.3 billion gain recognized in other income (expense), net and a reclassification of the security to non-marketable equity securities.

59


Alphabet Inc.

Equity Investments
The following discusses our marketable equity securities, non-marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized gains and losses on marketable and non-marketable equity securities, as well as our equity securities accounted for under the equity method.
Marketable equity securities
Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks or funds measured at fair value and classified within Level 1 and 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we use quoted prices for identical assets in active markets or inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets.
Prior to January 1, 2018, we accounted for the majority of our marketable equity securities at fair value with unrealized gains and losses recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet. Realized gains and losses on marketable equity securities sold or impaired were recognized in other income (expense), net.
Starting January 1, 2018, upon our adoption of ASU 2016-01, unrealized gains and losses during the year are recognized in other income (expense), net. Upon adoption, we reclassified $98 million net unrealized gains related to marketable equity securities from accumulated other comprehensive income to opening retained earnings.
The following table summarizes marketable equity securities measured at fair value by significant investment categories as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2017 
 | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Level 1: | | | 
Money market funds | $ | 1,833 | | | $ | 0 
Marketable equity securities | 0 | | | 340 | 
 | 1,833 | | | 340 | 
Level 2: | | | 
Mutual funds(1) | 0 | | | 252 | 
Total | $ | 1,833 | | | $ | 592

(1)The fair value option was elected for mutual funds with gains (losses) recognized in other income (expense), net.

 | As of December 31, 2018 
 | Cash and Cash Equivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Level 1: | | | 
Money market funds | $ | 3,493 | | | $ | 0 
Marketable equity securities | 0 | | | 994 | 
 | 3,493 | | | 994 | 
Level 2: | | | 
Mutual funds | 0 | | | 228 | 
Total | $ | 3,493 | | | $ | 1,222

Non-marketable equity securities
Our non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies without readily determinable market values. 
Prior to January 1, 2018, we accounted for our non-marketable equity securities at cost less impairment. Realized gains and losses on non-marketable securities sold or impaired were recognized in other income (expense), net. As of December 31, 2017, non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the cost method had a carrying value of $4.5 billion and a fair value of approximately $8.8 billion. 
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2016-01 which changed the way we account for non-marketable securities. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities is adjusted to fair value for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment (referred to as the measurement alternative). All gains and losses on non-marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized in other income (expense), net. Because we adopted ASU 2016-01 prospectively, we recognize unrealized gains that occurred in prior 
60


Alphabet Inc.

periods in the first period after January 1, 2018 when there is an observable transaction for our securities. Non-marketable equity securities remeasured during the year ended December 31, 2018 are classified within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because we estimate the value based on valuation methods using the observable transaction price at the transaction date and other unobservable inputs including volatility, rights, and obligations of the securities we hold.
The following is a summary of unrealized gains and losses recorded in other income (expense), net, and included as adjustments to the carrying value of non-marketable equity securities held as of December 31, 2018 (in millions):

 | Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2018
Upward adjustments | $ | 4,285
Downward adjustments (including impairment) | (178 | ) 
Total unrealized gain (loss) for non-marketable equity securities | $ | 4,107

The following table summarizes the total carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities held as of December 31, 2018 including cumulative unrealized upward and downward adjustments made to the initial cost basis of the securities (in millions):

Initial cost basis(1) | $ | 8,168 
Upward adjustments | 4,285 | 
Downward adjustments (including impairment) | (178 | ) 
Total carrying value at the end of the period | $ | 12,275


(1) | Includes $2.2 billion for a non-marketable equity security reclassified from a non-marketable debt security during 2018.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, included in the $12.3 billion of non-marketable equity securities, $6.9 billion were measured at fair value based on observable market transactions, resulting in a net unrealized gain of $4.1 billion.
Gains and losses on marketable and non-marketable equity securities
Realized and unrealized gains and losses for our marketable and non-marketable equity securities for the year ended December 31, 2018 are summarized below (in millions):

 | Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2018
Realized gain (loss) for equity securities sold during the period | $ | 1,458
Unrealized gain (loss) on equity securities held as of the end of the period(1) | 4,002 | 
Total gain (loss) recognized in other income (expense), net | $ | 5,460


(1) | Includes $4,107 million related to non-marketable equity securities for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Equity securities accounted for under the Equity Method
As of December 31, 2017 and 2018, equity securities accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of approximately $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. Our share of gains and losses including impairment are included as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 6 for further details on other income (expense), net.
Derivative Financial Instruments
We classify our foreign currency and interest rate derivative contracts primarily within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments.
We recognize derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. We record changes in the fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of the derivatives in the Consolidated Statements of Income as either other income (expense), net, or revenues, or in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in AOCI, as discussed below. As a result of our adoption of Accounting Standard Update No. 2017-12 (ASU 2017-12) "Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities," the components excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in the same income statement line as the hedged item beginning January 1, 2018.
61


Alphabet Inc.

We enter into foreign currency contracts with financial institutions to reduce the risk that our cash flows, earnings, and investment in foreign subsidiaries will be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We also use interest rate derivative contracts to hedge interest rate exposures on our fixed income securities and debt issuances. Our program is not used for trading or speculative purposes.
We enter into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. To further reduce credit risk, we enter into collateral security arrangements under which the counterparty is required to provide collateral when the net fair value of certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. We can take possession of the collateral in the event of counterparty default. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018, we received cash collateral related to the derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements of $15 million and $327 million, respectively, which was included in other current assets.
Cash Flow Hedges
We use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options), designated as cash flow hedges to hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The notional principal of these contracts was approximately $11.7 billion and $11.8 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. These contracts have maturities of 24 months or less.
For forwards and option contracts, we exclude the change in the forward points and time value from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. The initial value of the excluded component is amortized on a straight-line basis over the life of the hedging instrument and recognized in revenues. The difference between fair value changes of the excluded component and the amount amortized to revenues is recorded in AOCI. We reflect the gains or losses of a cash flow hedge included in our hedge effective assessment as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassify these gains and losses to revenues when the hedged transactions are recorded. If the hedged transactions become probable of not occurring, the corresponding amounts in AOCI are immediately reclassified to other income (expense), net.
As of December 31, 2018, the net gain or loss of our foreign currency cash flow hedges before tax effect was a net accumulated gain of $247 million, of which a net gain of $247 million is expected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings within the next 12 months.
Fair Value Hedges
We use forward contracts designated as fair value hedges to hedge foreign currency risks for our investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We exclude changes in forward points for the forward contracts from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. We recognize changes in the excluded component in other income (expense), net. The notional principal of these contracts was $2.9 billion and $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Gains and losses on these forward contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net, along with the offsetting gains and losses of the related hedged items.
Net Investment Hedges
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we entered into forward contracts designated as net investment hedges to hedge the foreign currency risks related to our investment in foreign subsidiaries. We exclude changes in forward points for the forward contracts from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. We recognize changes in the excluded component in other income (expense), net. The notional principal of these contracts was $6.7 billion as of December 31, 2018. 
Gains and losses on these forward contracts are recognized in AOCI as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment.
Other Derivatives
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward contracts that we use to hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of a subsidiary. We recognize gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs in other income (expense), net, along with the foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities. The notional principal of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts was $15.2 billion and $20.1 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
62


Alphabet Inc.

The fair values of our outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | | As of December 31, 2017 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other current and non-current assets | $ | 51 | | $ | 29 | $ | 80 
Total | | $ | 51 | | $ | 29 | $ | 80 
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 230 | | $ | 122 | $ | 352
Total | | $ | 230 | | $ | 122 | $ | 352


 | | As of December 31, 2018 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other current and non-current assets | $ | 459 | | $ | 54 | $ | 513
Total | | $ | 459 | | $ | 54 | $ | 513
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 5 | | $ | 228 | $ | 233
Total | | $ | 5 | | $ | 228 | $ | 233

The gains (losses) on derivatives in cash flow hedging and net investment hedging relationships recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI) are summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in OCIon Derivatives Before Tax Effect
 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | $ | 773 | | | $ | (955 | ) | $ | 332
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 0 | | | 26 
Derivatives in Net Investment Hedging Relationship: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | 
Amount included in the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 0 | | | 136
Total | $ | 773 | | | $ | (955 | ) | $ | 494


63


Alphabet Inc.

The effect of derivative instruments on income is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income
 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018 
 | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net | Revenues | | Other income (expense), net
Total amounts presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income in which the effects of cash flow and fair value hedges are recorded | $ | 90,272 | | | $ | 434 | | $ | 110,855 | | $ | 1,047 | | | $ | 136,819 | | $ | 8,592
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount of gains (losses) reclassified from AOCI to income | $ | 539 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | (169 | ) | $ | 0 | | | $ | (139 | ) | $ | 0 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness recognized in earnings based on an amortization approach | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | 1 | | | 0 | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | (381 | ) | | 0 | | 83 | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Fair Value Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Hedged items | 0 | | | (139 | ) | | 0 | | 197 | | 0 | | | (96 | )
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments | 0 | | | 139 | | | 0 | | (197 | ) | 0 | | | 96 | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 6 | | | 0 | | 23 | | 0 | | | 37 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives in Net Investment Hedging Relationship: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Amount excluded from the assessment of effectiveness | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 78 | 
Gains (Losses) on Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments: | | | | | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | | | | | | | | | | 
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments | 0 | | | 130 | | | 0 | | (230 | ) | 0 | | | 54 | 
Total gains (losses) | $ | 539 | | | $ | (245 | ) | $ | (169 | ) | $ | (124 | ) | | $ | (138 | ) | $ | 169 

Offsetting of Derivatives
We present our forwards and purchased options at gross fair values in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For foreign currency collars, we present at net fair values where both purchased and written options are with the same counterparty. Our master netting and other similar arrangements allow net settlements under certain conditions. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018, information related to these offsetting arrangements were as follows (in millions):
64


Alphabet Inc.

Offsetting of Assets

 | As of December 31, 2017 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 102 | | $ | (22 | ) | $ | 80 | | $ | (64 | ) | (1) | $ | (4 | ) | $ | (2 | ) | $ | 10 
 | As of December 31, 2018 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 569 | | $ | (56 | ) | $ | 513 | | $ | (90 | ) | (1) | $ | (307 | ) | $ | (14 | ) | $ | 102


(1) | The balances as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 were related to derivative liabilities which are allowed to be net settled against derivative assets in accordance with our master netting agreements.

Offsetting of Liabilities

 | As of December 31, 2017 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 374 | | $ | (22 | ) | $ | 352 | | $ | (64 | ) | (2) | $ | 0 | $ | 0 | $ | 288
 | As of December 31, 2018 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 289 | | $ | (56 | ) | $ | 233 | | $ | (90 | ) | (2) | $ | 0 | $ | 0 | $ | 143


(2) | The balances as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 were related to derivative assets which are allowed to be net settled against derivative liabilities in accordance with our master netting agreements.

Note 4. Variable Interest Entities (VIEs)
Consolidated VIEs
We consolidate VIEs in which we hold a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. We are the primary beneficiary because we have the power to direct activities that most significantly affect their economic performance and have the obligation to absorb the majority of their losses or benefits. The results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are included in our consolidated financial statements. 
 For certain consolidated VIEs, their assets are not available to us and their creditors do not have recourse to us. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018, assets that can only be used to settle obligations of these VIEs were $1.7 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, and the liabilities for which creditors only have recourse to the VIEs were $997 million and $909 million, respectively. 
Calico
Calico is a life science company with a mission to harness advanced technologies to increase our understanding of the biology that controls lifespan. 
65


Alphabet Inc.

In September 2014, AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) and Calico entered into a research and development collaboration agreement intended to help both companies discover, develop, and bring to market new therapies for patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer. In the second quarter of 2018, AbbVie and Calico amended the collaboration agreement resulting in an increase in total commitments. As of December 31, 2018, AbbVie has contributed $750 million to fund the collaboration pursuant to the agreement and is committed to an additional $500 million which will be paid by the fourth quarter of 2019. As of December 31, 2018, Calico has contributed $500 million and has committed up to an additional $750 million.
Calico has used its scientific expertise to establish a world-class research and development facility, with a focus on drug discovery and early drug development; and AbbVie provides scientific and clinical development support and its commercial expertise to bring new discoveries to market. Both companies share costs and profits for projects covered under this agreement equally. AbbVie's contribution has been recorded as a liability on Calico's financial statements, which is reduced and reflected as a reduction to research and development expense as eligible research and development costs are incurred by Calico. 
As of December 31, 2018, we have contributed $480 million to Calico in exchange for Calico convertible preferred units and are committed to fund up to an additional $750 million on an as-needed basis and subject to certain conditions.
Verily
Verily is a life science company with a mission to make the world's health data useful so that people enjoy healthier lives. 
In 2017, Temasek, a Singapore-based investment company, purchased a noncontrolling interest in Verily for an aggregate of $800 million in cash. 
In December 2018, Verily received $900 million in cash from a $1.0 billion investment round. The remaining $100 million is expected to be received in the first quarter of 2019.
These transactions were accounted for as equity transactions and no gain or loss was recognized.
Unconsolidated VIEs
Certain renewable energy investments included in our non-marketable equity investments accounted for under the equity method are VIEs. These entities' activities involve power generation using renewable sources. We have determined that the governance structures of these entities do not allow us to direct the activities that would significantly affect their economic performance such as setting operating budgets. Therefore, we do not consolidate these VIEs in our consolidated financial statements. The carrying value and maximum exposure of these VIEs were $896 million and $705 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. The maximum exposure is based on current investments to date.  We have determined the single source of our exposure to these VIEs is our capital investment in them.
Other unconsolidated VIEs were not material as of December 31, 2017 and 2018.
Note 5. Debt
Short-Term Debt
We have a debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2017 and 2018. 
Long-Term Debt
Google issued $3.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in three tranches (collectively, 2011 Notes) in May 2011, due in 2014, 2016, and 2021, as well as $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes (2014 Notes) in February 2014 due in 2024. 
In April 2016, we completed an exchange offer with eligible holders of Google’s 2011 Notes due 2021 and 2014 Notes due 2024 (collectively, the Google Notes). An aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.7 billion of the Google Notes was exchanged for approximately $1.7 billion of Alphabet notes with identical interest rate and maturity. Because the exchange was between a parent and the subsidiary company and for substantially identical notes, the change was treated as a debt modification for accounting purposes with no gain or loss recognized. 
In August 2016, Alphabet issued $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes (2016 Notes) due 2026. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2016 Notes were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of outstanding 
66


Alphabet Inc.

commercial paper. The Alphabet notes due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 rank equally with each other and are structurally subordinate to the outstanding Google Notes.
 The total outstanding long-term debt is summarized below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2017 | | As ofDecember 31, 2018
3.625% Notes due on May 19, 2021 | $ | 1,000 | | | $ | 1,000
3.375% Notes due on February 25, 2024 | 1,000 | | | 1,000 | 
1.998% Notes due on August 15, 2026 | 2,000 | | | 2,000 | 
Unamortized discount for the Notes above | (57 | ) | | (50 | )
Subtotal(1) | 3,943 | | | 3,950 | 
Capital lease obligation | 26 | | | 62 | 
Total long-term debt | $ | 3,969 | | | $ | 4,012


(1) | Includes the outstanding (and unexchanged) Google Notes issued in 2011 and 2014 and the Alphabet notes exchanged in 2016.

The effective interest yields based on proceeds received from the outstanding notes due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 were 3.734%, 3.377%, and 2.231%, respectively, with interest payable semi-annually. We may redeem these notes at any time in whole or in part at specified redemption prices. The total estimated fair value of all outstanding notes was approximately $4.0 billion and $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. The fair value was determined based on observable market prices of identical instruments in less active markets and is categorized accordingly as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
As of December 31, 2018, the aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt including long-term capital leases for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (in millions):

2019 | $ | 0 
2020 | 14 | 
2021 | 1,003 | 
2022 | 3 | 
2023 | 3 | 
Thereafter | 3,039 | 
Total | $ | 4,062

Credit Facility
As of December 31, 2018, we have $4.0 billion of revolving credit facilities which expire in July 2023. The interest rate for the credit facilities is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. No amounts were outstanding under the credit facilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2018.
Note 6. Supplemental Financial Statement Information
Property and Equipment, Net
Property and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2017 | | As ofDecember 31, 2018
Land and buildings | $ | 23,183 | | | $ | 30,179
Information technology assets | 21,429 | | | 30,119 | 
Construction in progress | 10,491 | | | 16,838 | 
Leasehold improvements | 4,496 | | | 5,310 | 
Furniture and fixtures | 48 | | | 61 | 
Property and equipment, gross | 59,647 | | | 82,507 | 
Less: accumulated depreciation | (17,264 | ) | | (22,788 | )
Property and equipment, net | $ | 42,383 | | | $ | 59,719

67


Alphabet Inc.

As of December 31, 2017 and 2018, assets under capital lease with a cost basis of $390 million and $648 million, respectively, were included in property and equipment. 
Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2017 | | As ofDecember 31, 2018
European Commission fines(1) | $ | 2,874 | | | $ | 7,754 
Accrued customer liabilities | 1,489 | | | 1,810 | 
Other accrued expenses and current liabilities | 5,814 | | | 7,394 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | $ | 10,177 | | | $ | 16,958


(1) | Includes the effects of foreign exchange and interest. See Note 9 for further details

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The components of AOCI, net of tax, were as follows (in millions):

 | Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Investments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges | | Total
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | $ | (2,047 | ) | | $ | (86 | ) | | $ | 259 | | $ | (1,874 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (599 | ) | | (314 | ) | | 515 | | | (398 | )
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 221 | | | (351 | ) | | (130 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (599 | ) | | (93 | ) | | 164 | | | (528 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2016 | $ | (2,646 | ) | | $ | (179 | ) | | $ | 423 | | $ | (2,402 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | 1,543 | | | 307 | | | (638 | ) | | 1,212 | 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 105 | | | 93 | | | 198 | 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 1,543 | | | 412 | | | (545 | ) | | 1,410 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2017 | $ | (1,103 | ) | | $ | 233 | | | $ | (122 | ) | $ | (992 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications(1) | (781 | ) | | (10 | ) | | 264 | | | (527 | )
Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness recorded in AOCI | 0 | | | 0 | | | 26 | | | 26 | 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (911 | ) | | 98 | | | (813 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (781 | ) | | (921 | ) | | 388 | | | (1,314 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2018 | $ | (1,884 | ) | | $ | (688 | ) | | $ | 266 | | $ | (2,306 | )


(1) | The change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments included a $98 million adjustment of net unrealized gains related to marketable equity securities from AOCI to opening retained earnings as a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-01 on January 1, 2018.

68


Alphabet Inc.

The effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI were as follows (in millions):

 | | Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI to the Consolidated Statements of Income
 | | Year Ended December 31, 
AOCI Components | Location | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments | | | | 
 | Other income (expense), net | $ | (221 | ) | | $ | (105 | ) | | $ | 1,190 | 
 | Provision for income taxes | 0 | | | 0 | | | (279 | )
 | Net of tax | $ | (221 | ) | | $ | (105 | ) | | $ | 911 | 
Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Revenue | $ | 539 | | | $ | (169 | ) | | $ | (139 | )
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 5 | | | 5 | | | 6 | 
 | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | (193 | ) | | 71 | | | 35 | 
 | Net of tax | $ | 351 | | | $ | (93 | ) | | $ | (98 | )
Total amount reclassified, net of tax | | $ | 130 | | | $ | (198 | ) | | $ | 813 | 

Other Income (Expense), Net 
The components of other income (expense), net, were as follows (in millions): 

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Interest income | $ | 1,220 | | | $ | 1,312 | | | $ | 1,878
Interest expense(1) | (124 | ) | | (109 | ) | | (114 | )
Foreign currency exchange losses, net (2) | (475 | ) | | (121 | ) | | (80 | )
Gain (loss) on debt securities, net(3) | (53 | ) | | (110 | ) | | 1,190 | 
Gain (loss) on equity securities, net | (20 | ) | | 73 | | | 5,460 | 
Loss and impairment from equity method investments, net | (202 | ) | | (156 | ) | | (120 | )
Other | 88 | | | 158 | | | 378 | 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 434 | | | $ | 1,047 | | | $ | 8,592


(1) | Interest expense is net of interest capitalized of $0 million, $48 million, and $92 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively.


(2) | Our foreign currency exchange losses, net, are related to the option premium costs and forwards points for our foreign currency hedging contracts, our foreign exchange transaction gains and losses from the conversion of the transaction currency to the functional currency, offset by the foreign currency hedging contract losses and gains. The net foreign currency transaction losses were $112 million, $226 million, and $195 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively.


(3) | During the year ended December 31, 2018, the terms of a non-marketable debt security were modified resulting in an unrealized $1.3 billion gain.

Note 7. Acquisitions
2018 Acquisitions
HTC Corporation (HTC)
In January 2018, we completed the acquisition of a team of engineers and a non-exclusive license of intellectual property from HTC for $1.1 billion in cash. In aggregate, $10 million was cash acquired, $165 million was attributed to intangible assets, $934 million was attributed to goodwill, and $9 million was attributed to net liabilities assumed. Goodwill, which was included in the Google segment, is not deductible for tax purposes. We expect this transaction to accelerate Google’s ongoing hardware efforts. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination. 
Other Acquisitions
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $573 million. In aggregate, $10 million was cash acquired, $295 million was attributed to intangible assets, $293 million was attributed to goodwill, and $25 million was attributed to net liabilities 
69


Alphabet Inc.

assumed. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings and expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $81 million.
Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions, including HTC, have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate.
For all intangible assets acquired and purchased during the year ended December 31, 2018, patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of 3.7 years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of 2.3 years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of 3.7 years.
2017 Acquisitions
During the year ended December 31, 2017, we completed various acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $322 million. In aggregate, $12 million was cash acquired, $117 million was attributed to intangible assets, $221 million was attributed to goodwill, and $28 million was attributed to net liabilities assumed. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings and expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $60 million.
Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in aggregate.
For all intangible assets acquired and purchased during the year ended December 31, 2017, patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of 3.7 years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of 2.0 years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of 8.8 years.
Note 8. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018 were as follows (in millions):

 | Google | | Other Bets | | Total Consolidated
Balance as of December 31, 2016 | $ | 16,027 | | | $ | 441 | | | $ | 16,468
Acquisitions | 212 | | | 9 | | | 221 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | 56 | | | 2 | | | 58 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2017 | 16,295 | | | 452 | | | 16,747 | 
Acquisitions | 1,227 | | | 0 | | | 1,227 | 
Transfers | 80 | | | (80 | ) | | 0 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | (81 | ) | | (5 | ) | | (86 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2018 | $ | 17,521 | | | $ | 367 | | | $ | 17,888

Other Intangible Assets
Information regarding purchased intangible assets were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2017
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingAmount
Patents and developed technology | $ | 5,260 | | | $ | 3,040 | | $ | 2,220
Customer relationships | 359 | | | 263 | | | 96 
Trade names and other | 544 | | | 168 | | | 376
Total | $ | 6,163 | | | $ | 3,471 | | $ | 2,692

70


Alphabet Inc.


 | As of December 31, 2018
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingValue
Patents and developed technology | $ | 5,125 | | | $ | 3,394 | | $ | 1,731
Customer relationships | 349 | | | 308 | | | 41 
Trade names and other | 703 | | | 255 | | | 448
Total | $ | 6,177 | | | $ | 3,957 | | $ | 2,220

Patents and developed technology, customer relationships, and trade names and other have weighted-average remaining useful lives of 3.0 years, 0.5 years, and 3.8 years, respectively. 
Amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets was $833 million, $796 million, and $865 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively.
As of December 31, 2018, expected amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets for each of the next five years and thereafter is as follows (in millions):

2019 | $ | 712 
2020 | 585 | 
2021 | 533 | 
2022 | 201 | 
2023 | 7 | 
Thereafter | 182 | 
 | $ | 2,220

Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies
Operating Leases
We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for data centers and land and offices throughout the world with lease periods expiring between 2019 and 2063. We are committed to pay a portion of the actual operating expenses under certain of these lease agreements. These operating expenses are not included in the table below. Certain of these arrangements have free or escalating rent payment provisions. We recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis.
As of December 31, 2018, future minimum payments under operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year, net of sublease income amounts, were as follows (in millions):

 | OperatingLeases(1) | | Sub-leaseIncome | | Net Operating Leases
2019 | $ | 1,319 | | | $ | 16 | | $ | 1,303 
2020 | 1,397 | | | 13 | | | 1,384
2021 | 1,337 | | | 10 | | | 1,327
2022 | 1,153 | | | 8 | | | 1,145
2023 | 980 | | | 3 | | | 977 
Thereafter | 3,916 | | | 5 | | | 3,911
Total minimum payments | $ | 10,102 | | | $ | 55 | | $ | 10,047


(1) | Includes future minimum payments for leases which have not yet commenced.

We have entered into certain non-cancelable lease agreements with lease periods expiring between 2021 and 2044 where we are the deemed owner for accounting purposes of new construction projects. Excluded from the table above are future minimum lease payments under such leases totaling approximately $3.5 billion, for which a $1.5 billion liability is included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2018.
Rent expense under operating leases was $897 million, $1.1 billion, and $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively.
71


Alphabet Inc.

Purchase Obligations
As of December 31, 2018, we had $7.4 billion of other non-cancelable contractual obligations, primarily related to data center operations and build-outs, digital media content licensing, and purchases of inventory.
Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, to facilitate transactions in our services and products, we indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network Members, and lessors with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.
It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, we have a limited history of prior indemnification claims and the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 
As of December 31, 2018, we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible. 
Legal Matters
Antitrust Investigations
On November 30, 2010, the EC's Directorate General for Competition opened an investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against us.
On April 15, 2015, the EC issued a Statement of Objections (SO) regarding the display and ranking of shopping search results and ads, to which we responded on August 27, 2015. On July 14, 2016, the EC issued a Supplementary SO regarding shopping search results and ads. On June 27, 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017) fine. On September 11, 2017, we appealed the EC decision and on September 27, 2017, we implemented product changes to bring shopping ads into compliance with the EC's decision. We recognized a charge of $2.7 billion for the fine in the second quarter of 2017. While under appeal, the fine is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees in lieu of a cash payment for the fine.
On April 20, 2016, the EC issued an SO regarding certain Android distribution practices. We responded to the SO and the EC's informational requests. On July 18, 2018, the EC announced its decision that certain provisions in Google’s Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018) fine and directed the termination of the conduct at issue. On October 9, 2018, we appealed the EC decision and implemented changes to certain of our Android distribution practices. We recognized a charge of $5.1 billion for the fine in the second quarter of 2018. While under appeal, the fine is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees in lieu of a cash payment for the fine.
On July 14, 2016, the EC issued an SO regarding the syndication of AdSense for Search. We responded to the SO and continue to respond to the EC's informational requests. There is significant uncertainty as to the outcome of this investigation; however, an adverse decision could result in fines and directives to alter or terminate certain conduct. Given the nature of this case, we are unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, if any. We remain committed to working with the EC to resolve these matters.
The Comision Nacional de Defensa de la Competencia in Argentina, the Competition Commission of India (CCI), Brazil's Administrative Council for Economic Defense (CADE), and the Korean Fair Trade Commission have also opened investigations into certain of our business practices. In November 2016, we responded to the CCI Director General's report with interim findings of competition law infringements regarding search and ads. On February 8, 2018, the CCI issued its final decision, including a fine of approximately $21 million, finding no violation of competition law infringement on most of the issues it investigated, but finding violations, including in the display of the “flights unit” in search results, and a contractual provision in certain direct search intermediation agreements. We have appealed the CCI decision. The fine was accrued for in 2018.
72


Alphabet Inc.

Patent and Intellectual Property Claims
We have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices, and require development of non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. In addition, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) has increasingly become an important forum to litigate intellectual property disputes because an ultimate loss for a company or its suppliers in an ITC action could result in a prohibition on importing infringing products into the U.S. Because the U.S. is an important market, a prohibition on importation could have an adverse effect on us, including preventing us from importing many important products into the U.S. or necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features of our products.
Furthermore, many of our agreements with our customers and partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Our customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely affect our business.
In 2010, Oracle America, Inc. (Oracle) brought a copyright lawsuit against Google in the Northern District of California, alleging that Google's Android operating system infringes Oracle's copyrights related to certain Java application programming interfaces. After trial, final judgment was entered by the district court in favor of Google on June 8, 2016, and the court decided post-trial motions in favor of Google. Oracle appealed and on March 27, 2018, the appeals court reversed and remanded the case for a trial on damages. On May 29, 2018, we filed a petition for an en banc rehearing at the Federal Circuit, and on August 28, 2018, the Federal Circuit denied the petition. On January 24, 2019, we filed a petition to the Supreme Court of the United States to review this case. We believe this lawsuit is without merit and are defending ourselves vigorously. Given the nature of this case, we are unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, if any, arising from this matter.
Other
We are also regularly subject to claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition (such as the pending EC investigations described above), intellectual property, privacy, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. Such claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings could result in fines, civil or criminal penalties, or other adverse consequences.
Certain of these outstanding matters include speculative, substantial or indeterminate monetary amounts. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. We evaluate developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both likelihood of there being and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters.
With respect to our outstanding matters, based on our current knowledge, we believe that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss will not, either individually or in aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, the outcome of such matters is inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties.
We expense legal fees in the period in which they are incurred.
Non-Income Taxes
We are under audit by various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to non-income tax matters. The subject matter of non-income tax audits primarily arises from disputes on the tax treatment and tax rate applied to the sale of our products and services in these jurisdictions and the tax treatment of certain employee benefits. We accrue non-income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. We believe these matters are without merit and we are defending ourselves vigorously. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and judicial process in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome may be materially different from our expectations.
73


Alphabet Inc.

For information regarding income tax contingencies, see Note 13.
Note 10. Stockholders’ Equity
Convertible Preferred Stock
Our board of directors has authorized 100 million shares of convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018, no shares were issued or outstanding.
Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock
Our board of directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock.
Share Repurchases
In October 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $7.0 billion of its Class C capital stock, which was completed during 2018. In January 2018, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $8.6 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. 
During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, we repurchased and subsequently retired 5.2 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $4.8 billion and 8.2 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $9.1 billion, respectively.
Note 11. Net Income Per Share
We compute net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares and the effect of potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist of restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. The computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A common stock assumes the conversion of Class B common stock, while the diluted net income per share of Class B common stock does not assume the conversion of those shares.
The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, of the holders of our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Furthermore, there are a number of safeguards built into our certificate of incorporation, as well as Delaware law, which preclude our board of directors from declaring or paying unequal per share dividends on our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments to our certificate of incorporation which would have the effect of adversely altering the rights, powers, or preferences of a given class of stock must be approved by the class of stock adversely affected by the proposed amendment. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that before any such amendment may be put to a stockholder vote, it must be approved by the unanimous consent of our board of directors. As a result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based on the contractual participation rights of the Class A and Class B common shares and Class C capital stock as if the earnings for the year had been distributed. As the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated on a proportionate basis. 
In the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, the net income per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock because the holders of each class are entitled to equal per share dividends or distributions in liquidation in accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Alphabet Inc.
74


Alphabet Inc.

The following tables set forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock (in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 8,332 | | | $ | 1,384 | | | $ | 9,762
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 294,217 | | | 48,859 | | | 344,702 | 
Basic net income per share | $ | 28.32 | | | $ | 28.32 | | | $ | 28.32
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 8,332 | | | $ | 1,384 | | | $ | 9,762
Effect of dilutive securities in equity method investments and subsidiaries | (9 | ) | | (2 | ) | | (10 | )
Allocation of undistributed earnings for diluted computation | 8,323 | | | 1,382 | | | 9,752 | 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 1,382 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (94 | ) | | (21 | ) | | 94 | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 9,611 | | | $ | 1,361 | | | $ | 9,846
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 294,217 | | | 48,859 | | | 344,702 | 
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 48,859 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 2,055 | | | 0 | | | 8,873 | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 345,131 | | | 48,859 | | | 353,575 | 
Diluted net income per share | $ | 27.85 | | | $ | 27.85 | | | $ | 27.85


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 5,438 | | | $ | 862 | | $ | 6,362
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 297,604 | | | 47,146 | | | 348,151
Basic net income per share | $ | 18.27 | | | $ | 18.27 | | $ | 18.27
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 5,438 | | | $ | 862 | | $ | 6,362
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 862 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (74 | ) | | (14 | ) | | 74 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 6,226 | | | $ | 848 | | $ | 6,436
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 297,604 | | | 47,146 | | | 348,151
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 47,146 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 1,192 | | | 0 | | | 9,491 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 345,942 | | | 47,146 | | | 357,642
Diluted net income per share | $ | 18.00 | | | $ | 18.00 | | $ | 18.00

75


Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2018 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 13,200 | | | $ | 2,072 | | $ | 15,464
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 298,548 | | | 46,864 | | | 349,728
Basic net income per share | $ | 44.22 | | | $ | 44.22 | | $ | 44.22 
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 13,200 | | | $ | 2,072 | | $ | 15,464
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 2,072 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (146 | ) | | (24 | ) | | 146 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 15,126 | | | $ | 2,048 | | $ | 15,610
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 298,548 | | | 46,864 | | | 349,728
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 46,864 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 689 | | | 0 | | | 7,456 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 346,101 | | | 46,864 | | | 357,184
Diluted net income per share | $ | 43.70 | | | $ | 43.70 | | $ | 43.70 

Note 12. Compensation Plans
Stock Plans
Under our 2012 Stock Plan, RSUs or stock options may be granted. An RSU award is an agreement to issue shares of our publicly traded stock at the time the award vests. Incentive and non-qualified stock options, or rights to purchase common stock, are generally granted for a term of 10 years. RSUs granted to participants under the 2012 Stock Plan generally vest over four years contingent upon employment or service with us on the vesting date.
As of December 31, 2018, there were 31,848,134 shares of stock reserved for future issuance under our Stock Plan.
Stock-Based Compensation
For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, total stock-based compensation expense was $6.9 billion, $7.9 billion and $10.0 billion, including amounts associated with awards we expect to settle in Alphabet stock of $6.7 billion, $7.7 billion, and $9.4 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, we recognized tax benefits on total stock-based compensation expense, which are reflected in the provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income, of $1.5 billion, $1.6 billion, and $1.5 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, tax benefit realized related to awards vested or exercised during the period was $2.1 billion, $2.7 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. These amounts do not include the indirect effects of stock-based awards, which primarily relate to the research and development tax credit.
76


Alphabet Inc.

Stock-Based Award Activities
The following table summarizes the activities for our unvested RSUs for the year ended December 31, 2018:

 | Unvested Restricted Stock Units
 | Number of Shares | | Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Value
Unvested as of December 31, 2017 | 20,077,346 | | | $ | 712.45 
Granted | 12,669,251 | | | $ | 1,095.89
Vested | (12,847,910 | ) | | $ | 756.45 
Forfeited/canceled | (1,431,009 | ) | | $ | 814.19 
Unvested as of December 31, 2018 | 18,467,678 | | | $ | 936.96 

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, was $713.89 and $845.06, respectively. Total fair value of RSUs, as of their respective vesting dates, during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018 were $9.0 billion, $11.3 billion, and $14.1 billion, respectively.
As of December 31, 2018, there was $16.2 billion of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested employee RSUs. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years. 
401(k) Plans
We have two 401(k) Savings Plans that qualify as deferred salary arrangements under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under these 401(k) Plans, matching contributions are based upon the amount of the employees’ contributions subject to certain limitations. We recognized expense of approximately $385 million, $448 million, and $691 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively.
Performance Fees
We have compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized investment returns. We recognize compensation expense based on the estimated payouts, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized. For the year ended December 31, 2018, performance fees of $1.2 billion primarily related to gains on equity securities (for further information on gains on equity securities, see Note 3) were accrued and recorded as a component of general and administrative expenses.
Note 13. Income Taxes
Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $12.0 billion, $10.7 billion, and $15.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $12.1 billion, $16.5 billion, and $19.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively. 
The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Current: | | | | | 
Federal and state | $ | 3,826 | | | $ | 12,608 | | | $ | 2,153
Foreign | 966 | | | 1,746 | | | 1,251 | 
Total | 4,792 | | | 14,354 | | | 3,404 | 
Deferred: | | | | | 
Federal and state | (70 | ) | | 220 | | | 907 | 
Foreign | (50 | ) | | (43 | ) | | (134 | )
Total | (120 | ) | | 177 | | | 773 | 
Provision for income taxes | $ | 4,672 | | | $ | 14,531 | | | $ | 4,177

The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and created new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments.
77


Alphabet Inc.

Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As we collected and prepared necessary data, and interpreted the additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we made adjustments, over the course of the year, to the provisional amounts including refinements to deferred taxes. The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act has been completed as of December 31, 2018.
One-time transition tax
The Tax Act required us to pay U.S. income taxes on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of foreign cash and certain other net current assets and 8% on the remaining earnings. We recorded a provisional amount for our one-time transitional tax liability and income tax expense of $10.2 billion as of December 31, 2017.
Deferred tax effects
Due to the change in the statutory tax rate from the Tax Act, we remeasured our deferred taxes as of December 31, 2017 to reflect the reduced rate that will apply in future periods when these deferred taxes are settled or realized. We recognized a deferred tax benefit of $376 million to reflect the reduced U.S. tax rate and other effects of the Tax Act as of December 31, 2017.
The reconciliation of federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate is as follows:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
U.S. federal statutory tax rate | 35.0 | % | | 35.0 | % | 21.0 | %
Foreign income taxed at different rates | (11.0 | ) | | (14.2 | ) | (4.9 | )
Effect of the Tax Act | | | | | | | 
One-time transition tax | 0.0 | | | 37.6 | | (0.1 | )
Deferred tax effects | 0.0 | | | (1.4 | ) | (1.2 | )
Federal research credit | (2.0 | ) | | (1.8 | ) | (2.4 | )
Stock-based compensation expense | (3.4 | ) | | (4.5 | ) | (2.2 | )
European Commission fine | 0.0 | | | 3.5 | | 3.1 | 
Deferred tax asset valuation allowance | 0.1 | | | 0.9 | | (2.0 | )
Other adjustments | 0.6 | | | (1.7 | ) | 0.7 | 
Effective tax rate | 19.3 | % | | 53.4 | % | 12.0 | %

Our effective tax rate for each of the years presented was affected by earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions with statutory tax rates lower than the federal statutory tax rate. Substantially all of the income from foreign operations was earned by an Irish subsidiary. Beginning in 2018, earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions are subject to U.S. tax in accordance with the Tax Act.
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court, in an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, invalidated the portion of the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section 482 requiring related-party participants in a cost sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. The U.S. Tax Court issued the final decision on December 28, 2015. The IRS served a Notice of Appeal on February 22, 2016 and the case is being heard by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals overturned the Tax Court’s decision in an opinion issued on July 24, 2018, but withdrew that opinion in an order issued on August 7, 2018 to allow time for a reconstituted panel to confer on the appeal. At this time, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals has not issued a final decision, and the U.S. Treasury has not withdrawn the requirement to include stock-based compensation from its regulations. We have evaluated the opinion and continue to record a tax benefit related to reimbursement of cost share payments for the previously shared stock-based compensation costs. In accordance with the Tax Act, the Altera tax benefit was remeasured from 35% to 21%. We also remeasured the tax benefit expected to be realized upon settlement including the expected future new taxes enacted by the Tax Act due upon resolution of the matter. The tax liability recorded as of December 31, 2016 for the U.S. tax cost of the potential repatriation associated with the contingent foreign earnings was reversed due to the Tax Act introducing a territorial tax system and providing a 100% dividend received deduction on certain qualified dividends from foreign subsidiaries. We will continue to monitor developments related to the case and the potential effect on our consolidated financial statements.
78


Alphabet Inc.

Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. We recorded a provisional adjustment to our U.S. deferred income taxes as of December 31, 2017 to reflect the reduction in the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% resulting from the Tax Act. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2017 | | 2018
Deferred tax assets: | | | 
Stock-based compensation expense | $ | 251 | | | $ | 291 | 
Accrued employee benefits | 285 | | | 387 | 
Accruals and reserves not currently deductible | 717 | | | 1,062 | 
Tax credits | 1,187 | | | 1,979 | 
Basis difference in investment in Arris | 849 | | | 657 | 
Prepaid cost sharing | 498 | | | 597 | 
Net operating losses | 320 | | | 557 | 
Other | 244 | | | 251 | 
Total deferred tax assets | 4,351 | | | 5,781 | 
Valuation allowance | (2,531 | ) | | (2,817 | )
Total deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance | 1,820 | | | 2,964 | 
Deferred tax liabilities: | | | 
Property and equipment | (551 | ) | | (1,382 | )
Identified intangibles | (419 | ) | | (229 | )
Renewable energy investments | (531 | ) | | (500 | )
Investment gains/losses | (22 | ) | | (1,143 | )
Other | (47 | ) | | (237 | )
Total deferred tax liabilities | (1,570 | ) | | (3,491 | )
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) | $ | 250 | | | $ | (527 | )

As of December 31, 2018, our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2021 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2019. It is more likely than not that certain federal net operating loss carryforwards and our state net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized; therefore, we have recorded a valuation allowance against them. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various annual limitations under the tax laws of the different jurisdictions. Our foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were $950 million that will begin to expire in 2021.
As of December 31, 2018, our California research and development credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $2.4 billion that can be carried over indefinitely. We believe the state tax credit is not likely to be realized.
As of December 31, 2018, we maintained a valuation allowance with respect to California deferred tax assets, certain federal net operating losses, and certain foreign net operating losses that we believe are not likely to be realized. Due to gains from equity securities recognized in 2018, we released the valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset for the book-to-tax basis difference in our investments in Arris shares received from the sale of the Motorola Home business to Arris in 2013. We continue to reassess the remaining valuation allowance quarterly and if future evidence allows for a partial or full release of the valuation allowance, a tax benefit will be recorded accordingly. For further information on the unrealized gains related to marketable equity securities recognized in other income (expenses), see Note 1.
79


Alphabet Inc.

Uncertain Tax Positions
The following table summarizes the activity related to our gross unrecognized tax benefits from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2018 (in millions):

 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Beginning gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 4,167 | | | $ | 5,393 | | | $ | 4,696
Increases related to prior year tax positions | 899 | | | 685 | | | 321 | 
Decreases related to prior year tax positions | (157 | ) | | (257 | ) | | (623 | )
Decreases related to settlement with tax authorities | (196 | ) | | (1,875 | ) | | (191 | )
Increases related to current year tax positions | 680 | | | 750 | | | 449 | 
Ending gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 5,393 | | | $ | 4,696 | | | $ | 4,652

The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $5.4 billion, $4.7 billion, and $4.7 billion as of December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively, of which, $4.3 billion, $3.0 billion, and $2.9 billion, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate, respectively. The decrease in gross unrecognized tax benefits in 2017 was primarily as a result of the resolution of a multi-year U.S. audit.
As of December 31, 2017 and 2018, we had accrued $362 million and $490 million in interest and penalties in provision for income taxes, respectively.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions, our two major tax jurisdictions are the U.S. federal and Ireland. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS is currently examining our 2013 through 2015 tax returns. We have also received tax assessments in multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. We continue to defend any and all such claims as presented.
Our 2016 and 2017 tax years remain subject to examination by the IRS for U.S. federal tax purposes, and our 2011 through 2017 tax years remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits in various other jurisdictions that are not material to our financial statements.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the effect, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
We believe that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management's expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Although the timing of resolution, settlement, and closure of audits is not certain, it is reasonably possible that certain U.S. federal and non-U.S. tax audits may be concluded within the next 12 months, which could significantly increase or decrease the balance of our gross unrecognized tax benefits.
We estimate that our unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2018 could possibly decrease by approximately $600 million in the next 12 months. Positions that may be resolved include various U.S. and non-U.S. matters.
Note 14. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas
We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets.
Our reported segments are:

• | Google – Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings.


• | Other Bets – Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily.

80


Alphabet Inc.

Revenues, cost of revenues, and operating expenses are generally directly attributed to our segments. Inter-segment revenues are not presented separately, as these amounts are immaterial. Our Chief Operating Decision Maker does not evaluate operating segments using asset information.
In Q1 2018, Nest joined Google’s hardware team. Consequently, the financial results of Nest are reported in the Google segment, with Nest revenues reflected in Google other revenues. Prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the current period segment presentation. Consolidated financial results are not affected.
Information about segments during the periods presented were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Revenues: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 89,984 | | | $ | 110,378 | | $ | 136,224
Other Bets | 288 | | | 477 | | | 595
Total revenues | $ | 90,272 | | | $ | 110,855 | | $ | 136,819


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Operating income (loss): | | | | | 
Google | $ | 27,055 | | | $ | 32,287 | | | $ | 36,517
Other Bets | (2,741 | ) | | (2,734 | ) | | (3,358 | )
Reconciling items(1) | (598 | ) | | (3,407 | ) | | (6,838 | )
Total income from operations | $ | 23,716 | | | $ | 26,146 | | | $ | 26,321


(1) | Reconciling items are primarily comprised of the European Commission fines for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, and performance fees for the year ended December 31, 2018, as well as corporate administrative costs and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments for all periods presented.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Capital expenditures: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 9,437 | | | $ | 12,619 | | | $ | 25,460
Other Bets | 1,365 | | | 493 | | | 181 | 
Reconciling items(2) | (590 | ) | | 72 | | | (502 | )
Total capital expenditures as presented on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | $ | 10,212 | | | $ | 13,184 | | | $ | 25,139


(2) | Reconciling items are related to timing differences of payments as segment capital expenditures are on accrual basis while total capital expenditures shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow are on cash basis and other miscellaneous differences.

81


Alphabet Inc.

Stock-based compensation (SBC) and depreciation, amortization, and impairment are included in segment operating income (loss) as shown below (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | | 2018
Stock-based compensation: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 6,201 | | | $ | 7,168 | | $ | 8,755
Other Bets | 372 | | | 363 | | | 489
Reconciling items(3) | 130 | | | 148 | | | 109
Total stock-based compensation(4) | $ | 6,703 | | | $ | 7,679 | | $ | 9,353
Depreciation, amortization, and impairment: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 5,882 | | | $ | 6,608 | | $ | 8,708
Other Bets | 258 | | | 307 | | | 327
Reconciling items(5) | 4 | | | — | | | — 
Total depreciation, amortization, and impairment as presented on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | $ | 6,144 | | | $ | 6,915 | | $ | 9,035


(3) | Reconciling items represent corporate administrative costs that are not allocated to individual segments.


(4) | For purposes of segment reporting, SBC represents awards that we expect to settle in Alphabet stock.


(5) | Reconciling items are primarily related to corporate administrative costs and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments.

The following table presents our long-lived assets by geographic area (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2017 | | As ofDecember 31, 2018
Long-lived assets: | | | 
United States | $ | 55,113 | | | $ | 74,882
International | 17,874 | | | 22,234 | 
Total long-lived assets | $ | 72,987 | | | $ | 97,116

For revenues by geography, see Note 2.

ITEM 9. | CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A. | CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed at a reasonable assurance level and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
82


Alphabet Inc.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2018. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with our Audit Committee. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs.

ITEM 9B. | OTHER INFORMATION

None.
83


Alphabet Inc.

PART III

ITEM 10. | DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement for 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 (2019 Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the 2019 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. | EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the 2019 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. | SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the 2019 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. | CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Director Independence” in the 2019 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. | PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in the 2019 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
84


Alphabet Inc.

PART IV

ITEM 15. | EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)We have filed the following documents as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
1. Consolidated Financial Statements

Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 44
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 46
Consolidated Statements of Income | 47
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 48
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 49
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 50
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 51

2. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
The table below details the activity of the allowance for doubtful accounts and sales credits for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 (in millions):

 | Balance atBeginning ofYear | | Additions | Usage | | Balance atEnd of Year
Year ended December 31, 2016 | $ | 296 | | $ | 942 | | $ | (771 | ) | $ | 467
Year ended December 31, 2017 | $ | 467 | | $ | 1,131 | | $ | (924 | ) | $ | 674
Year ended December 31, 2018 | $ | 674 | | $ | 1,115 | | $ | (1,060 | ) | $ | 729


Note: | Additions to the allowance for doubtful accounts are charged to expense. Additions to the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues.

All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or the required information is otherwise included.
3. Exhibits

ExhibitNumber | | Description | | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date
2.01 | | Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 2, 2015, by and among Google Inc., the Registrant and Maple Technologies Inc. | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
3.01 | | Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated October 2, 2015 | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
3.02 | | Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, dated October 2, 2015 | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.01 | | Specimen Class A Common Stock certificate | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.02 | | Specimen Class C Capital Stock certificate | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.03 | | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.04 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Larry Page and certain of his affiliates | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015

85


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | Description | | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date
4.05 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Sergey Brin and certain of his affiliates | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.06 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Eric E. Schmidt and certain of its affiliates | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.07 | | Class C Undertaking, dated October 2, 2015, executed by the Registrant | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.08 | | Indenture, dated February 12, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee | | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209510) | February 12, 2016
4.09 | | Registrant Registration Rights Agreement dated December 14, 2015 | | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209518) | February 12, 2016
4.10 | | First Supplemental Indenture, dated April 27, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee | | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | April 27, 2016 
4.11 | | Form of the Registrant’s 3.625% Notes due 2021 (included in Exhibit 4.10) | | | 
4.12 | | Form of the Registrant’s 3.375% Notes due 2024 (included in Exhibit 4.10) | | | 
4.13 | | Form of the Registrant’s 1.998% Note due 2026 | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 9, 2016 
10.01 | | Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between the Registrant, its affiliates and its directors and officers | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.02 | u | Compensation Plan Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.03 | u | Director Arrangements Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.04 | u | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.05 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan, as amended | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-50726) | June 7, 2011 
10.05.1 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Form of Google Stock Option Agreement | | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | March 30, 2005 
10.05.2 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Form of Google Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | March 30, 2005 
10.05.3 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Amendment to Stock Option Agreements | | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-142243) | April 20, 2007 
10.06 | u | Alphabet Inc. 2012 Stock Plan | | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | June 8, 2018 
10.06.1 | u | Alphabet Inc. 2012 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | | Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q(File No. 001-37580) | November 3, 2016 
10.07 | u | Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan | | Registration Statement on Form S-8(File No. 333-181661) | May 24, 2012 


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | Description | | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date
10.08 | u | AdMob, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan and UK Sub-Plan of the AdMob, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan | | Registration Statement on Form S-8(File No. 333-167411) | June 9, 2010 
10.09 | u | Apigee Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan | | Registration Statement on Form S-8(File No. 333-214573) | November 10, 2016
10.09.1 | u | Apigee Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan - Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | | Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-214573) | November 10, 2016
14.01 | | Code of Conduct of the Registrant as amended on September 21, 2017 | | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 001-37580) | February 6, 2018 
21.01 | * | Subsidiaries of the Registrant | | | 
23.01 | * | Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | | | 
24.01 | * | Power of Attorney (incorporated by reference to the signature page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) | | | 
31.01 | * | Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | | 
31.02 | * | Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | | 
32.01 | ‡ | Certifications of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | | 
99.01 | | Google blog post dated July 18, 2018 | | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | July 18, 2018 
101.INS | * | XBRL Instance Document | | | 
101.SCH | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document | | | 
101.CAL | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document | | | 
101.DEF | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document | | | 
101.LAB | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document | | | 
101.PRE | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document | | | 

_________________

u | Indicates management compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement.
* | Filed herewith. 
‡ | Furnished herewith. 


ITEM 16. | FORM 10-K SUMMARY

None.

Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 1. | BUSINESS

Overview
As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history -- inspiring us to do things like rethink the mobile device ecosystem with Android and map the world with Google Maps. As part of that, our founders also explained that you could expect us to make "smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses." From the start, the company has always strived to do more, and to do important and meaningful things with the resources we have.
Alphabet is a collection of businesses -- the largest of which, of course, is Google. It also includes businesses that are generally pretty far afield of our main Internet products such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Nest, Verily, Waymo, and X. We report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Our Alphabet structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence.
Access and technology for everyone
The Internet is one of the world’s most powerful equalizers, capable of propelling new ideas and people forward. At Google, our mission is to make sure that information serves everyone, not just a few. So whether you're a child in a rural village or a professor at an elite university, you can access the same information. We are helping people get online by tailoring digital experiences to the needs of emerging markets. We're also making sure our core Google products are fast and useful, especially for users in areas where speed and connectivity are central concerns.
Other Alphabet companies are also pursuing initiatives with similar goals. For instance, in October 2017, Project Loon within X deployed its network of stratospheric balloons to deliver basic internet connectivity to more than 100,000 people in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria.
Moonshots
Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. We continue to look toward the future and continue to invest for the long-term. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in because they are the key to our long-term success.
The power of machine learning
Across the company, machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) are increasingly driving many of our latest innovations. Within Google, our investments in machine learning over a decade have enabled us to build products that are smarter and more useful -- it's what allows you to use your voice to ask the Google Assistant for information, to translate the web from one language to another, to see better YouTube recommendations, and to search for people and events in Google Photos. Machine learning is also showing great promise in helping us tackle big issues, like dramatically improving the energy efficiency of our data centers. Across Other Bets, machine learning helps self-driving cars better detect and respond to others on the road, and can also improve the ability of clinicians to detect diseases such as diabetic retinopathy.
Google
Serving our users
We have always been a company committed to making big bets that have the potential to improve the lives of millions of people. Our product innovations have made our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google's core products and platforms such as Android, Chrome, Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube each have over one billion monthly active users. But most important, we believe we are just beginning to scratch the surface. Our vision is to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation that uses our technical expertise to tackle big problems. As the majority of Alphabet’s big bets continue to reside within Google, an important benefit of the shift to Alphabet has been the tremendous focus that we’re able to have on Google’s many extraordinary opportunities. 
3


Alphabet Inc.

Google’s mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful has always been our North Star, and our products have come a long way since the company was founded nearly two decades ago. Instead of just showing ten blue links in our search results, we are increasingly able to provide direct answers -- even if you're speaking your question using Voice Search -- which makes it quicker, easier and more natural to find what you're looking for. You can also type or talk with the Google Assistant in a conversational way across multiple devices like phones, speakers, headphones, televisions and more. And with Google Lens, you can now use your phone’s camera to identify an unfamiliar landmark or find a trailer from a movie poster. Over time, we have also added other services that let you access information quickly and easily -- like Google Maps, which helps you navigate to a store while showing you current traffic conditions, or Google Photos, which helps you store and organize your photos.
This drive to make information more accessible has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content, on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. And with the migration to mobile, people are consuming more digital content by watching more videos, playing more games, listening to more music, reading more books, and using more apps than ever before. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to find great digital content.
Fueling all of these great digital experiences are powerful platforms and hardware. That’s why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, Chrome operating system, and Daydream virtual reality platform, as well as growing our family of great hardware devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful, make your life easier, and even get better over time, by combining the best of Google's AI, software, and hardware. This is reflected in our latest generation of hardware products like the newest additions to the Google Home family called Mini and Max, Pixel 2 phone, and Pixelbook laptop. Creating beautiful products that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long run.
Google was a company built in the cloud and has been investing in infrastructure, security, data management, analytics, and AI from the very beginning. We have continued to enhance these strengths with features like data migration, modern development environments and machine learning tools to provide enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and G Suite, to our customers. Google Cloud Platform enables developers to build, test, and deploy applications on Google’s highly scalable and reliable infrastructure. Our G Suite productivity tools -- which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Hangouts, and more -- are designed with real-time collaboration and machine intelligence to help people work smarter. Because more and more of today’s great digital experiences are being built in the cloud, our Google Cloud products help businesses of all sizes take advantage of the latest technology advances to operate more efficiently.
How we make money
The goal of our advertising business is to deliver relevant ads at just the right time and to give people useful commercial information, regardless of the device they’re using. We also provide advertisers with tools that help them better attribute and measure their advertising campaigns across screens. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses, and we offer a wide range of products across screens and formats. We generate revenues primarily by delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising.

• | Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Most of our performance advertisers pay us when a user engages in their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results.


For performance advertisers, AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising program, helps create simple text-based ads that appear on Google properties and the properties of Google Network Members. In addition, Google Network Members use our AdSense program to display relevant ads on their properties, generating revenues when site visitors view or click on the ads. We continue to invest in our advertising programs and make significant upgrades.

• | Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns.


We have built a world-class ad technology platform for brand advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. We also seek to improve the measurability of brand advertising so advertisers know when their campaigns are effective.
4


Alphabet Inc.

We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, ranging from filtering out invalid traffic, removing hundreds of millions of bad ads from our systems every year to closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blacklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content.
Beyond our advertising business, we also generate revenues in other areas, such as digital content, enterprise cloud services, and hardware.
Other Bets
Throughout Alphabet, we are also using technology to try and solve big problems across many industries. Alphabet’s Other Bets are early-stage businesses, and our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the medium to long term. To do this, we make sure we have a strong CEO to run each company while also rigorously handling capital allocation and working to make sure each business is executing well. 
While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. For instance, Nest recently expanded its connected home product line by introducing the Nest Thermostat E and a new home security solution that includes the Nest Hello video doorbell, Nest Cam IQ outdoor security camera, and the Nest Secure alarm system. Our self-driving car company, Waymo, continues to progress the development and testing of its technology and now has a fleet of vehicles in Phoenix, Arizona, driving without a person behind the wheel. Life sciences company Verily has also made significant progress on key programs, like the launch of its Project Baseline study with Duke University and Stanford Medicine, and received an $800 million investment in 2017 from Temasek to accelerate its strategic programs. 
We continue to build these businesses thoughtfully and systematically to capitalize on the opportunities ahead. We are investing for the long term while being very deliberate about the focus, scale and pace of investments. We generate revenues from internet and TV services, licensing and R&D services, and Nest branded hardware.
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from:

• | General purpose search engines and information services, such as Baidu, Microsoft's Bing, Naver, Seznam, Verizon's Yahoo, and Yandex.


• | Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Amazon and eBay (e-commerce), Kayak (travel queries), LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google.


• | Social networks, such as Facebook, Snap, and Twitter. Some users increasingly rely on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines.


• | Other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline.


• | Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Amazon, AppNexus, Criteo, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers that use AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising platform.


• | Providers of digital video services, such as Amazon, Facebook, Hulu, and Netflix.


• | Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer electronics products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms.


• | Providers of enterprise cloud services, including Alibaba, Amazon, and Microsoft.


• | Digital assistant providers, such as Amazon, Apple, and Microsoft.

Competing successfully in our advertising-related businesses depends heavily on our ability to deliver and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace so that we can attract and retain:

• | Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, primarily on the basis of the relevance and usefulness of our search results and the features, availability, and ease of use of our products and services.


• | Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels.

5


Alphabet Inc.


• | Content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.

Intellectual Property
We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties.
Culture and Employees
We take great pride in our culture. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex technical challenges. Transparency and open dialogue are central to how we work, and we like to ensure that company news reaches our employees first through internal channels.
Despite our rapid growth, we still cherish our roots as a startup and wherever possible empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their role or function within the company. We strive to hire great employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as those of our global users. We work to provide an environment where these talented people can have fulfilling careers addressing some of the biggest challenges in technology and society.
Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue investing in hiring talented employees and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees. As of December 31, 2017, we had 80,110 full-time employees. Although we have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our U.S. employees are not represented by a labor union. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff.
Seasonality
Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality.
Other Items
Climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time, and we’ve long been committed to improving our energy consumption. In 2012, we set a goal to reach 100% renewable energy for our operations. While we are still performing final analysis for the year, in 2017, we purchased a total wind and solar capacity of about three gigawatts, which we expect will be enough renewables to match the energy consumption of our global operations.
We continue to invest in our existing products and services as well as developing new products and services through research and product development. We often release early-stage products. We then use data and user feedback to decide if and how to invest further in those products. Research and development expenses include the vast majority of engineering and technical headcount responsible for research and development of our existing and new products and services, as well as their associated costs. For more information, please refer to the Consolidated Statements of Income included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
For information about segments and geographic areas, please refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
As part of the Alphabet reorganization, we converted Google Inc. into a limited liability company in September 2017.
Available Information
Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can get information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, 
6


Alphabet Inc.

governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.

ITEM 1A. | RISK FACTORS

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.
Risks Related to Our Businesses and Industries
We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. 
Our businesses are rapidly evolving, intensely competitive, and subject to changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services, including products and services that may be outside of our historical core business. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our technology and our existing products and services, and introduce new products and services that people can easily and effectively use.
We have many competitors in different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Some companies have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users. They can use their experiences and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in research and development and in hiring talent, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete aggressively for users, advertisers, and content providers. Emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the consumer need for products and services before us.
In addition, new products and services can sometimes present new and difficult technological and legal challenges, which may negatively impact our brands and demand for our products and services and adversely impact our revenues and operating results. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, and content providers; are not appropriately timed with market opportunities; or are not effectively brought to market. As technologies continue to develop, our competitors may be able to offer user experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, and content providers, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected.
We generate substantially all of our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending by advertisers or a loss of partners could harm our advertising business. 
We generated over 86% of total revenues from advertising in 2017. Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content partners can terminate their contracts with us at any time. Those partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. If we do not provide superior value or deliver advertisements efficiently and competitively, we could see a decrease in revenue and other adverse impacts to our business. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions can also have a material negative impact on user activity and the demand for advertising and cause our advertisers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising, which could adversely affect our revenues and advertising business.
7


Alphabet Inc.

Our ongoing investment in new businesses and new products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our current operations.
We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The creation of Alphabet as a holding company in 2015 and the investments that we are making across various areas in Google and Other Bets are a reflection of our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including insufficient revenues from such investments to offset any new liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments, distraction of management from current operations, use of alternative investment or compensation structures, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and offerings that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
The Internet is accessed through a variety of platforms and form factors that continue to evolve with the advancement of technology and user preferences. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our search technology, products, or operating systems developed for these devices and modalities, our business could be adversely affected. 
The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than desktop computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-assisted speakers, automobiles, and television set-top devices, is increasing dramatically. The functionality and user experience associated with some alternative devices and modalities may make the use of our products and services or the generation of advertising revenue through such devices more difficult (or just different), and the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compatible or compelling to users, manufacturers, or distributors of alternative devices. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via apps tailored to particular devices or social media platforms, which could affect our search and advertising business over time. As new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of products and services across multiple platforms and devices. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users to our products and services, or if we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with alternative devices and platforms, we will fail to capture the opportunities available as consumers and advertisers continue to exist in a dynamic, multi-platform environment.
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future. 
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including:

• | increasing competition,


• | changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix,


• | the challenges in maintaining our growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels,


• | the evolution of the online advertising market, including the increasing variety of online platforms for advertising, and the other markets in which we participate, and


• | the rate of user adoption of our products, services, and technologies.

We believe our margins could experience downward pressure as a result of increasing competition and increased costs for many aspects of our business as well as the continuing shift to mobile, changes in device mix, and the contribution of new businesses to overall revenue. For instance, the margin on revenues we generate from our Google Network Members is significantly less than the margin on revenues we generate from advertising on Google properties. Consequently, our margins will experience downward pressure if a greater percentage of our revenues comes from ads placed on our Google Network Members' properties compared to revenues generated through ads placed on Google properties. Additionally, the margin we earn on revenues generated from our Google Network Members could decrease in the future if we pay an even larger percentage of advertising fees to our Google Network Members.
Furthermore, in our multi-device world, we generate our advertising revenues increasingly from mobile and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these sources have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. We also expect our TAC paid to our distribution partners to increase due to changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points.
8


Alphabet Inc.

Additionally, our margins could experience downward pressure as revenues from the sale of hardware products and cloud-based services increase as a percentage of consolidated revenues because the margin on the sale of these products and services have generally been lower than that from Google search. Furthermore, our margins could be impacted adversely if we spend a proportionately larger amount to promote new products and services or distribute certain products or if we invest more heavily in our innovation efforts across the Company (such as our Other Bets businesses) than we have historically.
We are subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny that may negatively impact our business. Additionally, changes in public policies governing a wide range of topics may adversely affect our business. 
The growth of our company and our expansion into a variety of new fields involves a variety of new regulatory issues, and we have experienced increased regulatory scrutiny as we have grown. For instance, various regulatory agencies are reviewing aspects of our search and other businesses, which can lead to increased scrutiny from other regulators and legislators, that may affect our reputation, brand and third-party relationships. Such reviews may also result in substantial regulatory fines, changes to our business practices and other penalties, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We continue to cooperate with the European Commission and other regulatory authorities around the world in investigations they are conducting with respect to our business.
Additionally, changes in social, political, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics may disrupt our business practices. These changes could negatively impact our business and results of operations in material ways.
A variety of new and existing laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. 
We are subject to numerous U.S. and international laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may make our products and services less useful, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. For example, current and new patent laws such as U.S. patent laws and European patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. Similarly, changes to copyright laws being considered in Europe and elsewhere may increase costs or require companies, including us, to change or cease offering certain existing services. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future.
Claims have been, or may be, threatened and filed against us under both U.S. and international laws for defamation, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, patent, copyright and trademark infringement, product liability, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted by our users, our products and services, or content generated by our users. Furthermore, many of these laws do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by a number of our new businesses, products, services and technologies. In addition, the applicability and scope of these laws, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain.
Other laws that could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business include, among others:

• | We rely on statutory safe harbors, as set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the United States and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, against copyright liability for various linking, caching, and hosting activities. Any legislation or court rulings impacting these safe harbors may adversely impact us.


• | The General Data Protection Regulation, coming into effect in the European Union in May of 2018, which creates a range of new compliance obligations, which could cause us to change our business practices, and will increase financial penalties for noncompliance significantly.


• | Court decisions such as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on May 13, 2014 on the ‘right to be forgotten,’ which allows individuals to demand that Google remove search results about them in certain instances, may limit the content we can show to our users and impose significant operational burdens.


• | Court decisions that require Google to suppress content not just in the jurisdiction of the issuing court, but for all of our users worldwide, including locations where the content at issue is lawful. The Supreme Court of Canada issued such a decision against Google in June 2017, and others could treat its decision as persuasive. For instance, with respect to the ‘right to be forgotten,’ a follow-up case is pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union, which could result in an order to apply delisting actions under the ‘right to be forgotten’ worldwide.


• | Various U.S. and international laws that restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors.

9


Alphabet Inc.


• | Various laws with regards to content removal and disclosure obligations, such as the recently enacted Network Enforcement Act in Germany, which may impact our businesses and operations and may subject us to significant fines if such laws are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices.


• | Data protection laws passed by many states within the U.S. and by certain countries that require notification to users when there is a security breach of personal data.


• | Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country.


• | Privacy laws, which could be interpreted over-broadly to limit some product offerings and increase costs.

We face risks and costs overseas as our products and services are offered in international markets and may be subject to additional regulations. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes.
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. The manufacturing and sale of an expanded suite of products, including hardware, further exposes us to the risk of product liability and other litigation as well as consumer protection concerns related to product defects, as well as health and safety, hazardous materials usage, and other environmental concerns. We may also be subject to claims, including product warranty claims, if users experience service disruptions, failures, or other issues. In addition, our businesses face intellectual property litigation, as discussed later, that exposes us to the risk of exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell products and services.
Such claims, suits, and government investigations are inherently uncertain. Regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. These proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or product recalls or corrections, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. 
We host and provide a wide variety of services and products that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities both domestically and internationally. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services and products for activities of their users is still somewhat unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally. Claims have been threatened and have been brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright or trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our users. In addition, we are and have been and may again in the future be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates U.S. and international law.
We also place advertisements which are displayed on third-party publishers and advertising networks properties, and we offer third-party products, services, or content. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, or content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting, or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, provide, or provide access to these products, services, or content. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, which may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner.
Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. If our security measures are breached resulting in the improper use and disclosure of user data, or if our services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not 
10


Alphabet Inc.

being secure, users and customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure. 
From time to time, concerns have been expressed about whether our products, services, or processes compromise the privacy of users, customers, and others. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results.
Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users’ and customers’ proprietary information, and theft and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, improper use and disclosure of such information, litigation, and potential liability. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our users’ data, or in our or our users’ ability to access such data, could seriously harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business, and impair our ability to attract and retain users. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to maintain state-of-the-art security protections that shield against theft and security breaches. 
We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, including vulnerabilities of our vendors, suppliers, their products, or otherwise. Such breach or unauthorized access, increased government surveillance, or attempts by outside parties to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, become more sophisticated, and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Additionally, cyber attacks could also compromise trade secrets and other sensitive information and result in such information being disclosed to others and becoming less valuable, which could negatively affect our business. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users and customers.
Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business. 
Regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, including measures to ensure that encryption of users’ data does not hinder law enforcement agencies’ access to that data. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. These legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, and such interpretations could, in addition to the possibility of fines, result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.
Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of personal data from Europe to the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), coming into application in the European Union (EU) on May 25, 2018, will apply to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services that we offer to EU users. The GDPR will create a range of new compliance obligations, which could cause us to change our business practices, and will significantly increase financial penalties for noncompliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual turnover for the preceding financial year or €20 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious infringements).
In addition, the European Commission in July 2016 and the Swiss Government in January 2017 approved the EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks, respectively, which are designed to allow U.S. companies that self-certify to the U.S. Department of Commerce and publicly commit to comply with the Privacy Shield requirements to freely import personal data from the EU and Switzerland. However, these frameworks face a number of legal challenges and their validity remains subject to legal, regulatory and political developments in both Europe and the U.S. This has resulted in some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.
11


Alphabet Inc.

We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property or other claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. 
Internet, technology, media, and other companies own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies may continue to seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. As we have grown, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies.
We have had patent, copyright, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell our products or services in the U.S. or elsewhere if our products or services or those of our customers or suppliers are found to infringe the intellectual property subject to the claims. Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices and require development of non-infringing products, services or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business.
Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers from covered products. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims.
Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and cause significant diversion of management attention. To the extent such claims are successful, they may have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brand. 
Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable.
We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of such trade secrets and other sensitive information could be compromised by outside parties, or by our employees, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word “Google” could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word “search.” If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word “Google” to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand.
Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results.
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations. 
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and divestitures are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We 
12


Alphabet Inc.

expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. Effecting these strategic transactions could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include, among others:

• | Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic transactions.


• | Failure to successfully further develop the acquired business or technology.


• | Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company.


• | Integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions.


• | Transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms.


• | Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or other strategic transaction.


• | In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.


• | Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire.


• | Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, privacy issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities.


• | Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties.

Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.
Our acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or results. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which may adversely impact our financial condition or results. 
Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, content providers, and other partners. 
Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs of our users. Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy issues and developments, and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to appropriately respond to the sharing of objectionable content on our services or objectionable practices by advertisers, or to otherwise adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence in our brands. Our brands may also be negatively affected by the use of our products or services to disseminate information that is deemed to be misleading.
Furthermore, if we fail to maintain and enhance equity in the Google brand, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our success will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a meaningful role in people’s everyday lives.
13


Alphabet Inc.

We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that, if not properly managed, could adversely impact our financial results and prospects. 
We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management. These manufacturing and supply chain risks could impact our ability to supply both our products and our internet-based services.
We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products, third-party arrangements for the design of some components and parts, and third party distributors, including cellular network carriers. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage third parties with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them.
We have in the past, and may experience in the future, supply shortages and price increases driven by raw material availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, natural disasters and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. We may experience shortages or other supply chain disruptions in the future that could negatively impact our operations. In addition, some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and products are available only from a single source or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms or at all in the event of a supply chain disruption. In addition, a significant hardware supply interruption could delay critical data center upgrades or expansions.
We may enter into long term contracts that commit us to significant terms and conditions of supply. We may be liable for material and product that is not consumed due to market acceptance, technological change, obsolescences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because many of our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and therefore less competitive and negatively impact our financial results. Furthermore, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may impact our supply.
Additionally, the products and services we sell or offer may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products and services does not meet our customers’ expectations or our products or services are found to be defective, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted.
We also require our suppliers and business partners to comply with law and, where applicable, our company policies regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. If any of them violates laws or implements practices regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. If any of them fails to procure necessary license rights to third-party intellectual property, legal action could ensue that could impact the saleability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to third parties.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC) and procedures pertaining to a manufacturer's efforts regarding the source of such minerals. SEC rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply DRC conflict free components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain DRC conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. Since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the minerals used in our products.
Web spam and content farms could decrease our search quality, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. 
Web spam refers to websites that attempt to violate a search engine's quality guidelines or that otherwise seek to rank higher in search results than a search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them.
Although English-language web spam in our search results has been significantly reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek ways to improve their rankings inappropriately. We continuously combat web spam, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We face challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes focused on low-quality websites. If our search results display an increasing number of web spam and content farms, this could hurt our reputation for delivering 
14


Alphabet Inc.

relevant information or reduce user traffic to our websites. In addition, as we continue to take actions to improve our search quality and reduce low-quality content, this may in the short run reduce our Google Network Members' revenues, since some of these websites are Google Network Members.
Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. 
The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and to potential disruptions if the operators of certain of these facilities have financial difficulties. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility we are using, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and may contain errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in our services or the failure of our systems.
Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 53% of our consolidated revenues in 2017. In certain international markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed.
In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following:

• | Restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.


• | Import and export requirements, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers, and customs classifications that may prevent us from offering products or providing services to a particular market and may increase our operating costs.


• | Longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud.


• | Evolving foreign laws and legal systems.


• | Uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent.


• | Different employee/employer relationships, existence of workers' councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions.

Additionally, changes in international local political, economic, regulatory, tax, social, and labor conditions may adversely harm our business, and compliance with complex international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include, among others, internal control and disclosure rules, privacy and data protection requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our international growth efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies.
Finally, since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Additionally, hedging programs are inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
15


Alphabet Inc.

Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations.
Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly, year-to-date, and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may differ significantly from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed in this section in addition to the following factors may affect our operating results:

• | Our ability to continue to attract and retain users to our products and services.


• | Our ability to monetize (or generate revenues from) traffic on Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties across various devices.


• | Revenue fluctuations caused by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix.


• | The amount of revenues and expenses generated and incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and our ability to manage the resulting risk through our foreign exchange risk management program.


• | The amount and timing of operating costs and expenses and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure.


• | Our focus on long-term goals over short-term results.


• | The results of our acquisitions, divestitures, and our investments in risky projects, including new businesses, products, services, and technologies.


• | Our ability to keep our products and services operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions.


• | Our ability to attract user adoption of and generate significant revenues from new products, services, and technologies in which we have invested considerable time and resources.


• | The seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage, advertising spending, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality. Our rapid growth has tended to mask the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results to fluctuate.

Because our businesses are changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. 
If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy.
Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, Larry Page and Sergey Brin are critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries, and they, along with Sundar Pichai, the Chief Executive Officer of Google, play an important role in the development of our technology. They also play a key role in maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could seriously harm our business.
We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively.
Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees.
In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, particularly in light of our holding company structure, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success.
16


Alphabet Inc.

Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers.
Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures, including legal actions, that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms of discrimination by Internet access providers, but there is substantial uncertainty in the United States and elsewhere regarding such protections. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. Such interference could result in a loss of existing users, advertisers, and goodwill, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users and advertisers, thereby harming our revenues and growth.
New and existing technologies could block ads online, which would harm our business. 
Technologies have been developed that enable users to block the display of ads altogether and some providers of online services have integrated technologies that could potentially impair the core functionality of third-party digital advertising. Most of our Google revenues are derived from fees paid to us in connection with the display of ads online. As a result, such technologies and tools could adversely affect our operating results.
We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investments. 
Given the global nature of our business, we have investments both domestically and internationally. Market values of these investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates, or other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.
We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. 
Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. 
In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions on various tax-related assertions, including transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.
Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations.
The ongoing effects of the Tax Act and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict.
Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of the Tax Act, which was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law that will have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Act. 
Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and other standard-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is 
17


Alphabet Inc.

different from our interpretation. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret the Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that could materially affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. 
Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock
The trading price for our Class A common stock and non-voting Class C capital stock may continue to be volatile. 
The trading price of our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. For example, from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017, the closing price of our Class A common stock ranged from $807.77 per share to $1,085.09 per share, and the closing price of our Class C capital stock ranged from $786.14 to $1,077.14 per share.
In addition to the factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others:

• | Quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors.


• | Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments.


• | Recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates.


• | Announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the risk of which is enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance on earnings.


• | Announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations.


• | Commentary by industry and market professionals about our products, strategies, and other matters affecting our business and results, regardless of its accuracy.


• | The volume of shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock available for public sale.


• | Sales of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock by us or by our stockholders (including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other employees).


• | Short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock.


• | The perceived values of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock relative to one another.


• | Our share repurchase program.

In addition, the stock market in general, which can be impacted by various factors, including overall economic and political conditions, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock regardless of our actual operating performance.
We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that our share repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our stock and could diminish our cash reserves. 
In October 2016, our board of directors authorized our company to repurchase up to $7,019,340,976.83 of our Class C capital stock. In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional$8,589,869,056 of our Class C capital stock. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. The share repurchase program, authorized by our board of directors, does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. The share repurchase program could affect the price of our stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock.
The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. 
Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A common stock has one vote per share, and our Class C capital stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2017, Larry, Sergey, and Eric E. Schmidt beneficially owned approximately 92.7% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which represented approximately 56.7% of 
18


Alphabet Inc.

the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Larry, Sergey, and Eric therefore have significant influence over management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C capital stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could prolong the duration of Larry and Sergey’s current relative ownership of our voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Together with Eric, they would also continue to be able to control any required stockholder vote with respect to certain change in control transactions involving Alphabet (including an acquisition of Alphabet by another company).
This concentrated control limits or severely restricts our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock could be adversely affected.
Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.
Provisions in Alphabet’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:

• | Our certificate of incorporation provides for a tri-class capital stock structure. As a result of this structure, Larry, Sergey, and Eric have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, or other change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. As noted above, the issuance of the Class C capital stock could have the effect of prolonging the influence of Larry, Sergey, and Eric.


• | Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors.


• | Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting.


• | Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates.


• | Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company.


• | Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.

As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.
Risks Related to Our Holding Company Reorganization
As a holding company, Alphabet is dependent on the operations and funds of its subsidiaries.
On October 2, 2015, we completed a reorganization pursuant to which Alphabet became a holding company with no business operations of its own. Alphabet’s only significant assets are the outstanding equity interests in its subsidiaries, including Google. As a result, we rely on cash flows from subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including to service any debt obligations of Alphabet. 
We may not obtain the anticipated benefits of our reorganization into a holding company structure.
We believe that our holding company reorganization and the current operating structure increases management scale and allows us to focus on running our diverse businesses independently with the goal of maximizing each business’ potential. The benefits of this reorganization may not be obtained if circumstances prevent us from taking 
19


Alphabet Inc.

advantage of the strategic and business opportunities that we expect it may afford us. As a result, we may incur the costs of a holding company structure without realizing the benefits, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
Alphabet’s management is dedicating significant effort to the Other Bets' operating structures and business operations. These efforts may divert management’s focus and resources from Alphabet’s overall business, corporate initiatives, or strategic opportunities, which could have an adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. Additionally, our subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to Alphabet, as the new holding company.

ITEM 1B. | UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

Not applicable.

ITEM 2. | PROPERTIES

Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We also own and lease office and building space in the surrounding areas near our headquarters, which in the aggregate (including our headquarters) represent approximately 11.1 million square feet of office/building space and approximately forty-five acres of developable land to accommodate anticipated future growth. In addition, we own and lease office/building space and research and development sites around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We own and operate data centers in the U.S., Europe, South America, and Asia. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.

ITEM 3. | LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see Note 10 “Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Matters” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4. | MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.
20


Alphabet Inc.

PART II

ITEM 5. | MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

As of October 2, 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act.
Price Range of Common Stock and Capital Stock
Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since August 19, 2004 and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low sales prices per share for our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

Fiscal Year 2017 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2017 | $ | 872.37 | | $ | 807.77
June 30, 2017 | $ | 1,004.28 | | $ | 839.88
September 30, 2017 | $ | 998.31 | | $ | 919.46
December 31, 2017 | $ | 1,085.09 | | $ | 966.78


Fiscal Year 2016 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2016 | $ | 780.91 | | $ | 701.02
June 30, 2016 | $ | 787.68 | | $ | 681.14
September 30, 2016 | $ | 815.95 | | $ | 704.89
December 31, 2016 | $ | 835.74 | | $ | 753.22

Our Class B common stock is neither listed nor traded.
Our Class C capital stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since April 3, 2014. The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low sales prices per share for our Class C capital stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

Fiscal Year 2017 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2017 | $ | 852.12 | | $ | 786.14
June 30, 2017 | $ | 983.68 | | $ | 823.35
September 30, 2017 | $ | 980.34 | | $ | 898.70
December 31, 2017 | $ | 1,077.14 | | $ | 951.68


Fiscal Year 2016 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2016 | $ | 764.65 | | $ | 678.11
June 30, 2016 | $ | 766.61 | | $ | 668.26
September 30, 2016 | $ | 787.21 | | $ | 694.49
December 31, 2016 | $ | 813.11 | | $ | 736.08

Holders of Record
As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 2,100 and 2,101 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock, respectively, and the closing prices of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock were $1,053.40 and $1,046.40 per share, respectively, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 62 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock.
Dividend Policy
We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. We intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.
21


Alphabet Inc.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class C capital stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2017: 

Period | Total Number of Shares Purchased (in thousands) (1) | Average Price Paid per Share (2) | | Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(in thousands) (1) | Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (in millions)
October 1 - 31 | 0 | | $ | 0.00 | | 0 | $ | 4,274
November 1 - 30 | 1,231 | | $ | 1,028.78 | | 1,231 | $ | 3,008
December 1 - 31 | 806 | | $ | 1,035.28 | | 806 | $ | 2,173
Total | 2,037 | | $ | 1,031.35 | | 2,037 | 


(1) | In October 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $7.0 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. See Note 11 in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases.


(2) | Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases.

22


Alphabet Inc.

Stock Performance Graphs
The following graph compares the 5-year cumulative total return to shareholders on Alphabet Inc.’s Class A common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the RDG Internet Composite index, and the NASDAQ Composite index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in the company’s Class A common stock and in each index on December 31, 2012 and its relative performance is tracked through December 31, 2017. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2012 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2015 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.
23


Alphabet Inc.

The following graph compares the cumulative total return to shareholders on Alphabet Inc.’s Class C capital stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the RDG Internet Composite index, and the NASDAQ Composite index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in the company’s Class C capital stock and in each index on April 3, 2014 and its relative performance is tracked through December 31, 2017. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on April 3, 2014 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2015 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.
These performance graphs shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference into any filing of Alphabet under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
24


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 6. | SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period.

 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016 | 2017
 | (in millions, except per share amounts)
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: 
Revenues | $ | 55,519 | | | $ | 66,001 | | $ | 74,989 | $ | 90,272 | $ | 110,855
Income from operations | 15,403 | | | 16,496 | | | 19,360 | | 23,716 | 26,146 | 
Net income from continuing operations | 13,160 | | | 13,620 | | | 16,348 | | 19,478 | 12,662 | 
Net income (loss) from discontinued operations | (427 | ) | | 516 | | | 0 | | 0 | 0 | 
Net income | 12,733 | | | 14,136 | | | 16,348 | | 19,478 | 12,662 | 
Basic net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock: 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.77 | | | $ | 20.15 | | $ | 23.11 | $ | 28.32 | $ | 18.27 
Discontinued operations | (0.64 | ) | | 0.76 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 19.13 | | | $ | 20.91 | | $ | 23.11 | $ | 28.32 | $ | 18.27 
Basic net income (loss) per share of Class C capital stock: 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.77 | | | $ | 20.15 | | $ | 24.63 | $ | 28.32 | $ | 18.27 
Discontinued operations | (0.64 | ) | | 0.76 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 19.13 | | | $ | 20.91 | | $ | 24.63 | $ | 28.32 | $ | 18.27 
Diluted net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock:
Continuing operations | $ | 19.42 | | | $ | 19.82 | | $ | 22.84 | $ | 27.85 | $ | 18.00 
Discontinued operations | (0.63 | ) | | 0.75 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 18.79 | | | $ | 20.57 | | $ | 22.84 | $ | 27.85 | $ | 18.00 
Diluted net income (loss) per share of Class C capital stock: 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.42 | | | $ | 19.82 | | $ | 24.34 | $ | 27.85 | $ | 18.00 
Discontinued operations | (0.63 | ) | | 0.75 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 18.79 | | | $ | 20.57 | | $ | 24.34 | $ | 27.85 | $ | 18.00 


 | As of December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | 2015 | | 2016 | 2017
 | (in millions) 
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: 
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | $ | 58,717 | | $ | 64,395 | | $ | 73,066 | $ | 86,333 | $ | 101,871
Total assets | $ | 109,050 | | $ | 129,187 | | $ | 147,461 | $ | 167,497 | $ | 197,295
Total long-term liabilities | $ | 6,165 | | $ | 8,548 | | $ | 7,820 | $ | 11,705 | $ | 20,610 
Total stockholders’ equity | $ | 86,977 | | $ | 103,860 | | $ | 120,331 | $ | 139,036 | $ | 152,502

25


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 7. | MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Trends in Our Business
The following trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to impact our future results:
•Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves.
The continuing shift from an offline to online world has contributed to the growth of our business since inception, resulting in increasing revenues, and we expect that this online shift will continue to benefit our business.
•As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings which may impact our monetization.
As interactions between users and advertisers change and as online user behavior evolves, we continue to expand and evolve our product offerings to serve their changing needs. Over time, we expect our monetization trends to fluctuate. For example, we have seen an increase in YouTube engagement ads, which monetize at a lower rate than traditional desktop search ads. Additionally, we continue to see a shift to programmatic buying which presents opportunities for advertisers to connect with the right user, in the right moment, in the right context. Programmatic buying has a different monetization profile than traditional advertising buying on Google properties. 
•Users are increasingly using multiple devices and modalities to access our products and services, and our advertising revenues are increasingly coming from mobile and other new formats.
Our users are accessing the Internet via multiple devices and modalities and want to feel connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. We seek to expand our products and services to stay in front of this shift in order to maintain and grow our business.
We generate our advertising revenues increasingly from mobile and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these sources have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Accordingly, we expect TAC paid to our distribution partners to increase due to changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points. We expect these trends to continue to put pressure on our overall margins.
•As users in developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue to increase and movements in foreign exchange rates impact such revenues.
The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, and we continue to develop localized versions of our products and relevant advertising programs useful to our users in these markets. This has led to a trend of increased revenues from international markets over time and we expect that our results will continue to be impacted by our performance in these markets, particularly as low-cost mobile devices become more available.
Our international revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a foreign exchange risk management program designed to reduce our exposure to these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect on our revenues and earnings.
•The portion of our revenues that we derive from non-advertising revenues is increasing and may impact margins.
Non-advertising revenues have grown over time. We expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our offerings to our users through products and services like Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware products, and YouTube subscriptions. Across these initiatives, we currently derive non-advertising revenues primarily from sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. The margins on these non-advertising businesses vary significantly and may be lower than the margins on our advertising business. A number of our Other Bets initiatives are in their initial development stages, and as such, the sources of revenues from these businesses could change over time and the revenues could be volatile.
26


Alphabet Inc.

•As we continue to look for new ways to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in R&D and our capital expenditures will continue to fluctuate.
We continue to make significant research and development (R&D) investments in areas of strategic focus such as advertising, cloud, machine learning, and search, as well as in new products and services. The amount of our capital expenditures has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in the long term as we invest heavily in our systems, data centers, real estate and facilities, and information technology infrastructure.
In addition, acquisitions remain an important part of our strategy and use of capital, and we expect to continue to spend cash on acquisitions and other investments. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas.

• | Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them.

Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. Their energy and talent drive Alphabet and create our success. We expect to continue hiring talented employees around the globe and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees.
Executive Overview of Results
Below are our key financial results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 (consolidated unless otherwise noted):

• | Revenues of $110.9 billion and revenue growth of 23% year over year, constant currency revenue growth of 24% year over year.


• | Google segment revenues of $109.7 billion with revenue growth of 23% year over year and Other Bets revenues of $1.2 billion with revenue growth of 49% year over year.


• | Revenues from the United States, EMEA, APAC, and Other Americas were $52.4 billion, $36.0 billion, $16.2 billion, and $6.1 billion, respectively.


• | Cost of revenues was $45.6 billion, consisting of TAC of $21.7 billion and other cost of revenues of $23.9 billion. Our TAC as a percentage of advertising revenues was 23%.


• | Operating expenses (excluding cost of revenues) were $39.1 billion.


• | Income from operations was $26.1 billion.


• | Effective tax rate was 53%.


• | Net income was $12.7 billion with diluted net income per share of $18.00.


• | Operating cash flow was $37.1 billion.


• | Capital expenditures were $13.2 billion.


• | Number of employees was 80,110 as of December 31, 2017.

Information about Segments
We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed below as Other Bets.
Our reported segments are:

• | Google – Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Commerce, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware, Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure and some newer efforts like virtual reality are also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings.


• | Other Bets – Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Nest, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Fiber, sales of Nest products and services, and licensing and R&D services through Verily.

Please refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
27


Alphabet Inc.

Revenues
The following table presents our revenues, by segment and revenue source (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Google segment | | | | | 
Google properties revenues | $ | 52,357 | | | $ | 63,785 | | $ | 77,788 
Google Network Members' properties revenues | 15,033 | | | 15,598 | | | 17,587
Google advertising revenues | 67,390 | | | 79,383 | | | 95,375
Google other revenues | 7,154 | | | 10,080 | | | 14,277
Google segment revenues | $ | 74,544 | | | $ | 89,463 | | $ | 109,652
Other Bets | | | | | 
Other Bets revenues | $ | 445 | | | $ | 809 | | $ | 1,203 
Revenues | $ | 74,989 | | | $ | 90,272 | | $ | 110,855

Google segment
The following table presents our Google segment revenues (in millions), and changes in our aggregate paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Google segment revenues | $ | 74,544 | | | $ | 89,463 | | | $ | 109,652
Google segment revenues as a percentage of total revenues | 99.4 | % | | 99.1 | % | | 98.9 | %
Aggregate paid clicks change | | | 34 | % | | 46 | % 
Aggregate cost-per-click change | | | (11 | )% | | (19 | )% 

Use of Monetization Metrics
When assessing our advertising revenues performance, we present information regarding the percentage change in the number of paid clicks and cost-per-click for our Google properties and Google Network Members' properties. Management views these as important metrics for understanding our business.
Paid clicks for our Google properties represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users related to searches on Google.com, clicks related to advertisements on other owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play, and viewed YouTube engagement ads. Paid clicks for our Google Network Members' properties include clicks by end-users related to advertisements served on Google Network Members' properties participating in AdMob, AdSense for Content, and AdSense for Search. In some cases, such as programmatic and reservation based advertising buying, we primarily charge advertisers by impression; while growing, this represents a small part of our consolidated revenues base. 
Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.
We periodically review, refine and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks and for identifying the revenues generated by click activity.
28


Alphabet Inc.

In the first quarter of 2017, we refined our methodology for paid clicks and cost-per-click to include additional categories of TrueView engagement ads and exclude non-engagement based trial ad formats. This change resulted in a modest increase in growth of paid clicks and a modest decrease in growth of cost-per-click. For comparison purposes, we have included updated data for historical periods in the table below: 

 | Three Months Ended | | Year Ended 
 | Mar 31, 2016 | | Jun 30, 2016 | | Sep 30, 2016 | Dec 31, 2016 | | Dec 31, 2016
Year-over-year change | | | | | | | | 
Aggregate paid clicks | 29 | % | | 28 | % | 32 | % | | 39 | % | 34 | % 
Paid clicks on Google properties | 38 | % | | 36 | % | 41 | % | | 47 | % | 43 | % 
Paid clicks on Google Network Members' properties | 2 | % | | 0 | % | 1 | % | | 7 | % | 3 | % 
Aggregate cost-per-click | (8 | )% | | (6 | )% | (10 | )% | | (17 | )% | (11 | )%
Cost-per-click on Google properties | (11 | )% | | (8 | )% | (12 | )% | | (18 | )% | (13 | )%
Cost-per-click on Google Network Members' properties | (8 | )% | | (8 | )% | (14 | )% | | (19 | )% | (13 | )%
Quarter-over-quarter change | | | | | | | | 
Aggregate paid clicks | (2 | )% | | 7 | % | 9 | % | | 22 | % | N/A | 
Paid clicks on Google properties | (3 | )% | | 9 | % | 11 | % | | 25 | % | N/A | 
Paid clicks on Google Network Members' properties | 4 | % | | (3 | )% | 1 | % | | 6 | % | N/A | 
Aggregate cost-per-click | (1 | )% | | (1 | )% | (5 | )% | | (10 | )% | N/A | 
Cost-per-click on Google properties | 1 | % | | (2 | )% | (6 | )% | | (12 | )% | N/A | 
Cost-per-click on Google Network Members' properties | (12 | )% | | (2 | )% | (6 | )% | | 0 | % | N/A | 

Our advertising revenue growth, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google properties and Google Network Members' properties and the correlation between these items, have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate because of various factors, including:

• | advertiser competition for keywords;


• | changes in advertising quality or formats;


• | changes in device mix;


• | changes in foreign currency exchange rates;


• | fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs;


• | general economic conditions;


• | growth rates of revenues from Google properties, including YouTube, compared to growth rates of revenues from Google Network Members' properties;


• | seasonality;


• | shift in the proportion of non-click based revenues generated on Google properties and Google Network Members' properties, including an increase in programmatic and reservation based advertising buying; and


• | traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals and channels.

Our advertising revenue growth rate has fluctuated over time as a result of a number of factors, including challenges in maintaining our growth rate as revenues increase to higher levels, changes in our product mix, increasing competition, query growth rates, our investments in new business strategies, shifts in the geographic mix of our revenues, and the evolution of the online advertising market. We also expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to be affected by evolving user preferences, the acceptance by users of our products and services as they are delivered on diverse devices and modalities, our ability to create a seamless experience for both users and advertisers, and movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
29


Alphabet Inc.

Google properties
The following table presents our Google properties revenues (in millions), and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Google properties revenues | $ | 52,357 | | | $ | 63,785 | | | $ | 77,788
Google properties revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 70.2 | % | | 71.3 | % | | 70.9 | %
Paid clicks change | | | 43 | % | | 54 | % 
Cost-per-click change | | | (13 | )% | | (21 | )% 

Google properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues that are generated on:

• | Google search properties which includes revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.; and


• | Other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, and YouTube.

Our Google properties revenues increased $14,003 million from 2016 to 2017. The growth was primarily driven by increases in mobile search resulting from ongoing growth in user adoption and usage, as well as continued growth in advertiser activity. We also experienced growth in YouTube driven primarily by video advertising, as well as growth in desktop search due to improvements in ad formats and delivery. The growth was partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs on Google properties increased from 2016 to 2017 due to growth in YouTube engagement ads, increases in mobile search queries, improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, and continued global expansion of our products, advertisers and user base. The positive impact on our revenues from an increase in paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers from 2016 to 2017. The decrease in cost-per-click was primarily driven by continued growth in YouTube engagement ads where cost-per-click remains lower than on our other advertising platforms. Cost-per-click was also impacted by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product changes, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Our Google properties revenues increased $11,428 million from 2015 to 2016 and also increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. The growth was primarily driven by increases in mobile search most notably due to ongoing improvements in ad formats and delivery launched during 2016. We also experienced growth in YouTube revenue driven primarily by video advertising across TrueView with a growing contribution from ad buying on DoubleClick Bid Manager, as well as improvements in ad formats and delivery. The growth was partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs on Google properties increased from 2015 to 2016 due to growth in the adoption of YouTube engagement ads, improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, and continued global expansion of our products, advertisers, and user base across all platforms, particularly mobile. The positive impact on our revenues from paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The decrease in cost-per-click was primarily driven by continued growth in YouTube engagement ads where cost-per-click remains lower than on our other advertising platforms, and also impacted by changes in device mix, property mix, product mix, geographic mix, ongoing product changes, and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Google Network Members' properties
The following table presents our Google Network Members' properties revenues (in millions) and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Google Network Members' properties revenues | $ | 15,033 | | | $ | 15,598 | | | $ | 17,587
Google Network Members' properties revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 20.2 | % | | 17.4 | % | | 16.0 | %
Paid clicks change | | | 3 | % | | 10 | % 
Cost-per-click change | | | (13 | )% | | (9 | )% 

30


Alphabet Inc.

Google Network Members' properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network Member properties through:

• | AdMob;


• | AdSense (such as AdSense for Content, AdSense for Search, etc.); and


• | DoubleClick AdExchange.

Our Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $1,989 million from 2016 to 2017. The growth was primarily driven by strength in both programmatic advertising buying and AdMob, offset by a decline in our traditional AdSense businesses and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
The increase in paid clicks from 2016 to 2017 resulted primarily from growth in AdMob and an increase from our traditional AdSense for Search business. The positive impact on our revenues from an increase in paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The changes in cost-per-click from 2016 to 2017 was impacted by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Our Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $565 million from 2015 to 2016. The growth was primarily driven by strength in programmatic advertising buying as well as strength in AdMob, offset by a decline in our traditional AdSense business and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
The increase in paid clicks from 2015 to 2016 resulted from the growth in AdMob offset by declines in AdSense. The decrease in cost-per-click paid by our advertisers from 2015 to 2016 resulted from changes in the product mix of Google Network Members advertising revenues, ongoing product and policy changes, changes in property and device mix, geographic mix, and relative fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Google other revenues
The following table presents our Google other revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Google other revenues | $ | 7,154 | | | $ | 10,080 | | | $ | 14,277
Google other revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 9.6 | % | | 11.3 | % | | 13.0 | %

Google other revenues consist primarily of revenues from:

• | Apps, in-app purchases, and digital content in the Google Play store;


• | Google Cloud offerings; and


• | Hardware.

Our Google other revenues increased $4,197 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase was primarily driven by revenues from Google Cloud offerings, hardware sales, and revenues from Google Play, largely relating to in-app purchases (revenues which we recognize net of payout to developers).
Our Google other revenues increased $2,926 million from 2015 to 2016 and increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. These increases were primarily due to the growth in revenues from Google Play, primarily relating to in-app purchases (revenues which we recognize net of payout to developers), hardware sales, and Google Cloud offerings.
Other Bets
The following table presents our Other Bets revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Other Bets revenues | $ | 445 | | | $ | 809 | | | $ | 1,203
Other Bets revenues as a percentage of total revenues | 0.6 | % | | 0.9 | % | | 1.1 | %

Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues and sales from:

• | Internet and TV services;


• | Licensing and R&D services; and


• | Nest branded hardware.

31


Alphabet Inc.

Our Other Bets revenues increased $394 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase was primarily driven by revenues from sales of Nest branded hardware, Fiber internet and TV services, and Verily licensing and R&D services.
Our Other Bets revenues increased $364 million from 2015 to 2016 and increased as a percentage of consolidated revenues. These increases were primarily driven by sales of Nest branded hardware and revenues from Fiber internet and TV services. There was also an increase in revenues from Verily licensing and R&D services from 2015 to 2016.
Due to the early stage of our Other Bets businesses and because their revenues aggregate a number of businesses operating in different industries, our Other Bets revenues may fluctuate in future periods. Additionally, our Other Bets revenues may fluctuate due to one-time items.
Revenues by Geography
The following table presents our revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the billing addresses of our customers:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
United States | 46 | % | | 47 | % | 47 | %
EMEA | 35 | % | | 34 | % | 33 | %
APAC | 14 | % | | 14 | % | 15 | %
Other Americas | 5 | % | | 5 | % | 5 | %

For the amounts of revenues by geography, please refer to Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Use of Constant Currency Revenues and Constant Currency Revenue Growth
The impact of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period to period comparisons. Our international revenues are favorably impacted as the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other foreign currencies, and unfavorably impacted as the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other foreign currencies. Our international revenues are also favorably impacted by net hedging gains and unfavorably impacted by net hedging losses.
We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues and constant currency revenue growth for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to GAAP results helps improve the ability to understand our performance because they exclude the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.
Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and use it to determine the constant currency revenue growth on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging impacts realized in the current period.
Constant currency revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) is calculated by determining the increase in current period revenues over prior period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior period exchange rates and hedging impacts are excluded from revenues of both periods.
These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.
32


Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents our foreign exchange impact on our international revenues and total revenues (in millions):

 | Twelve Months Ended
 | December 31, 
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
EMEA revenues | $ | 26,368 | | | $ | 30,304 | | | $ | 36,046 
Exclude foreign exchange impact on current period revenues using prior year rates | 3,802 | | | 1,291 | | | (5 | )
Exclude hedging impact recognized in current period | (989 | ) | | (479 | ) | | 190 | 
EMEA constant currency revenues | $ | 29,181 | | | $ | 31,116 | | | $ | 36,231 
Prior period EMEA revenues, excluding hedging impact | $ | 24,497 | | | $ | 25,379 | | | $ | 29,825 
EMEA revenue growth | | | 15 | % | | 19 | % 
EMEA constant currency revenue growth | | | 23 | % | | 21 | % 
APAC revenues | $ | 9,887 | | | $ | 12,559 | | | $ | 16,235 
Exclude foreign exchange impact on current period revenues using prior year rates | 1,076 | | | (362 | ) | | 26 | 
Exclude hedging impact recognized in current period | (323 | ) | | (31 | ) | | (43 | )
APAC constant currency revenues | $ | 10,640 | | | $ | 12,166 | | | $ | 16,218 
Prior period APAC revenues, excluding hedging impact | $ | 8,169 | | | $ | 9,564 | | | $ | 12,528 
APAC revenue growth | | | 27 | % | | 29 | % 
APAC constant currency revenue growth | | | 27 | % | | 29 | % 
Other Americas revenues | $ | 3,924 | | | $ | 4,628 | | | $ | 6,125 
Exclude foreign exchange impact on current period revenues using prior year rates | 712 | | | 344 | | | (148 | )
Exclude hedging impact recognized in current period | (88 | ) | | (29 | ) | | 22 | 
Other Americas constant currency revenues | $ | 4,548 | | | $ | 4,943 | | | $ | 5,999 
Prior period Other Americas revenues, excluding hedging impact | $ | 3,681 | | | $ | 3,836 | | | $ | 4,599 
Other Americas revenue growth | | | 18 | % | | 32 | % 
Other Americas constant currency revenue growth | | | 29 | % | | 30 | % 
United States revenues | $ | 34,810 | | | $ | 42,781 | | | $ | 52,449 
United States revenue growth | | | 23 | % | | 23 | % 
Total revenues | $ | 74,989 | | | $ | 90,272 | | | $ | 110,855
Total constant currency revenues | $ | 79,179 | | | $ | 91,006 | | | $ | 110,897
Total revenue growth | | | 20 | % | | 23 | % 
Total constant currency revenue growth | | | 24 | % | | 24 | % 

Our EMEA revenues from 2016 to 2017 were unfavorably impacted, primarily as a result of an unfavorable impact from hedging losses, slightly offset by a favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates. The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Euro and Russian ruble, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the British pound and Turkish lira.
Our EMEA revenues from 2015 to 2016 were unfavorably impacted, primarily as a result of an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates, offset by a favorable impact from hedging benefits. The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the British pound, Euro, and Russian ruble.
Our revenues from APAC from 2016 to 2017 were relatively flat, primarily as a result of a favorable impact from hedging benefits, offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates. The foreign exchange impact 
33


Alphabet Inc.

was due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Japanese yen, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Australian dollar, Indian rupee, South Korean won, and Taiwanese dollar.
Our revenues from APAC from 2015 to 2016 were relatively flat, primarily as a result of slight favorable impacts from foreign currency exchange rates and hedging benefits. The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Japanese yen, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Indian rupee and Australian dollar.
Our revenues from Other Americas from 2016 to 2017 were favorably impacted, primarily as a result of a favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates, slightly offset by an unfavorable impact from hedging losses. The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Brazilian real and Canadian dollar, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Argentine peso.
Our revenues from Other Americas from 2015 to 2016 were unfavorably impacted, primarily as a result of an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates, slightly offset by a favorable impact from hedging benefits. The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to certain currencies including the Argentine peso, Canadian dollar, Brazilian real, and the Mexican peso.
Costs and Expenses
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of TAC which are paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
The cost of revenues related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network Members' properties are significantly higher than the costs of revenues related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google properties because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network Members’ properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network Members.
Additionally, other cost of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) includes the following:

• | Amortization of certain intangible assets;


• | Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);


• | Credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions;


• | Expenses associated with our data center and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expenses (including SBC), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and


• | Inventory related costs for hardware we sell.

34


Alphabet Inc.

The following tables present our cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
TAC | $ | 14,343 | | | $ | 16,793 | | | $ | 21,672
Other cost of revenues | 13,821 | | | 18,345 | | | 23,911 | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 28,164 | | | $ | 35,138 | | | $ | 45,583
Total cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues | 37.6 | % | | 38.9 | % | | 41.1 | %
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
TAC to distribution partners | $ | 4,101 | | | $ | 5,894 | | | $ | 9,031 
TAC to distribution partners as a percentage of Google properties revenues(1) (Google properties TAC rate) | 7.8 | % | | 9.2 | % | | 11.6 | %
TAC to Google Network Members | $ | 10,242 | | | $ | 10,899 | | | $ | 12,641
TAC to Google Network Members as a percentage of Google Network Members' properties revenues(1) (Network Members TAC rate) | 68.1 | % | | 69.9 | % | | 71.9 | %
TAC | $ | 14,343 | | | $ | 16,793 | | | $ | 21,672
TAC as a percentage of advertising revenues(1) (Aggregate TAC rate) | 21.3 | % | | 21.2 | % | | 22.7 | %


(1) | Revenues include hedging gains(losses) which impact TAC rates.

Cost of revenues increased $10,445 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase was due to an increase in TAC of $4,879 million. The increase in TAC to distribution partners was a result of an increase in Google properties revenues and the associated TAC rate. The increase in TAC to Google Network Members was a result of an increase in Google Network Members' properties revenues and the associated TAC rate.
 The increase in the Google properties TAC rate was driven by changes in partner agreements and the ongoing shift to mobile, which carries higher TAC because more mobile searches are channeled through paid access points. The increase in the Network Members TAC rate was driven by the continued underlying shift in advertising buying from our traditional network business to programmatic advertising buying. The increase in the aggregate TAC rate was also partially offset by a favorable revenue mix shift from Google Network Members' properties to Google properties.
Other cost of revenues increased $5,566 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase was due to various factors, including an increase in data center and other operations costs, which include depreciation, compensation expenses (including SBC), energy, bandwidth, and other equipment costs as a result of business growth; hardware costs associated with new hardware launches; and content acquisition costs as a result of increased activities related to YouTube.
Cost of revenues increased $6,974 million from 2015 to 2016 due to various factors including traffic acquisition costs, data center costs, content acquisition costs, and hardware costs. The increase in traffic acquisition costs of $2,450 million was due to increases in advertising revenues primarily from the growth of mobile search and programmatic ad buying which carry higher TAC. The increase in other cost of revenues of $4,524 million was primarily due to increases in (1) data center costs including depreciation, labor, energy, bandwidth, and other equipment costs as a result of business growth, (2) content acquisition costs as a result of increased activities related to YouTube, (3) hardware costs associated with new hardware launches, and (4) stock-based compensation.
The aggregate TAC rate remained relatively flat from 2015 to 2016 primarily as a result of a shift of mix from Google Network Members' properties revenue to Google properties revenue. Our aggregate TAC rate was also impacted by the increase in mobile and programmatic advertising buying, which generally carry overall higher TAC. The increase in Google properties TAC rate was primarily driven by a shift to mobile and more mobile searches are subject to TAC. The increase in Network Members' TAC rate was primarily driven by the shift in advertising buying from our traditional network business to programmatic advertising buying.
35


Alphabet Inc.

We expect cost of revenues to increase in dollar amount and as a percentage of total revenues in future periods based on a number of factors, including the following:

• | Google Network Members TAC rates, which are affected by the continued underlying shift in advertising buying from our traditional network business to programmatic advertising buying which carries higher TAC;


• | Google properties TAC rates, which are affected by changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms such as revenue share arrangements, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points;


• | Growth rates of expenses associated with our data center and other operations, content acquisition costs, as well as our hardware inventory and related costs;


• | Increased proportion of non-advertising revenues, whose costs are generally higher in relation to our advertising revenues;


• | Relative revenue growth rates of Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties.

Research and Development
The following table presents our R&D expenses (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Research and development expenses | $ | 12,282 | | | $ | 13,948 | | | $ | 16,625
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues | 16.4 | % | | 15.5 | % | | 15.0 | %

R&D expenses consist primarily of:

• | Compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs for employees responsible for R&D of our existing and new products and services; and


• | Depreciation and equipment-related expenses.

R&D expenses increased $2,677 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs of $1,886 million, largely resulting from a 16% increase in headcount. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of $569 million.
R&D expenses increased $1,666 million from 2015 to 2016. The increase was primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $667 million and an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $326 million, both largely as a result of a 16% increase in R&D headcount, partially offset by higher expenses resulting from project milestones in Other Bets in 2015. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of approximately $388 million and an increase in professional services of $267 million due to additional expenses incurred for consulting, outsourced services, and temporary services.
We expect that R&D expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods.
Sales and Marketing
The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Sales and marketing expenses | $ | 9,047 | | | $ | 10,485 | | | $ | 12,893
Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues | 12.1 | % | | 11.6 | % | | 11.6 | %

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of:

• | Advertising and promotional expenditures related to our products and services; and


• | Compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $2,408 million from 2016 to 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $1,266 million, largely resulting from increases in marketing and promotion-related expenses for our hardware products, Cloud offerings, and YouTube. In addition, there was an increase in compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs of $853 million, largely resulting from a 6% increase in headcount.
36


Alphabet Inc.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $1,438 million from 2015 to 2016. The increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $679 million, largely due to increases in marketing and promotion-related expenses for our hardware products. Additionally, there was an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $482 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $179 million, both largely resulting from a 10% increase in sales and marketing headcount.
We expect that sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods.
General and Administrative
The following table presents our general and administrative expenses (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
General and administrative expenses | $ | 6,136 | | | $ | 6,985 | | | $ | 6,872
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues | 8.2 | % | | 7.7 | % | | 6.2 | %

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of:

• | Amortization of certain intangible assets;


• | Compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs for employees in our facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations;


• | Depreciation and equipment-related expenses; and


• | Professional services fees primarily related to audit, information technology consulting, outside legal, and outsourcing services.

General and administrative expenses decreased $113 million from 2016 to 2017. The decrease was primarily from reduced allocations to general and administrative expenses with an offsetting increase to costs of revenues and other operating expenses. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs of $271 million, largely resulting from a 9% increase in headcount. Additionally, there was an increase in professional service fees of $253 million due to additional expenses incurred for outsourced services and consulting services.
General and administrative expenses increased $849 million from 2015 to 2016. The increase was primarily due to increases in labor and facilities-related costs of $460 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $421 million, both largely resulting from a 15% increase in general and administrative headcount, as well as increases in other miscellaneous expenses. These increases were offset by a decrease in professional service fees of $194 million due to lower legal-related costs.
We expect general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods. 
European Commission Fine
In June 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €2.42 billion (approximately $2.74 billion as of June 27, 2017) fine, which was accrued in the second quarter of 2017.
Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table presents other income (expense), net, (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Other income (expense), net | $ | 291 | | | $ | 434 | | | $ | 1,047
Other income (expense), net, as a percentage of revenues | 0.4 | % | | 0.5 | % | | 0.9 | %

Other income (expense), net, increased $613 million from 2016 to 2017. This increase was primarily driven by reduced costs of our foreign currency hedging activities, decreased losses on marketable securities and an increase in interest income. 
37


Alphabet Inc.

Other income (expense), net, increased $143 million from 2015 to 2016. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in interest income and decreased losses on non-marketable investments, partially offset by increased losses from our foreign currency transactions and impairments for certain assets.
The costs of our foreign exchange hedging activities recognized in other income (expense), net, are primarily a function of the notional amount of the option and forward contracts and their related duration, the movement of foreign exchange rates relative to the contract prices, the volatility of foreign exchange rates and forward points. The hedging costs expensed in other income (expense), net, decreased as a result of less option premiums paid after we began to use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our forecasted revenues in the fourth quarter of 2016.
We expect that other income (expense), net, will fluctuate in dollar amount in future periods as it is largely driven by market dynamics.
Provision for Income Taxes
The following table presents our provision for income taxes (in millions) and effective tax rate:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Provision for income taxes | $ | 3,303 | | | $ | 4,672 | | | $ | 14,531
Effective tax rate | 16.8 | % | | 19.3 | % | | 53.4 | %

Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate increased from 2016 to 2017, due to the Tax Act that was enacted in December 2017. Please refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate increased from 2015 to 2016, largely due to proportionately more earnings generated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates and discrete items in 2015 and 2016, partially offset by the stock-based compensation benefits recognized resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09 (ASU 2016-09).
Our future effective tax rate will be affected by the Tax Act. Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments, which are referred to as the global intangible low-taxed income tax and the base erosion tax, respectively.
Our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items.
Quarterly Results of Operations
The following tables presenting our quarterly results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have prepared the unaudited information on the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements. Our operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future quarters or for a full year. 
The following table presents our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2017. This table includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that we consider necessary for a fair presentation of our consolidated financial position and operating results for the quarters presented. Both seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business. Commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends have caused, and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates.
38


Alphabet Inc.


 | Quarter Ended 
 | Mar 31,2016 | | Jun 30,2016 | | Sep 30,2016 | | Dec 31,2016 | Mar 31,2017 | | Jun 30,2017 | Sep 30,2017 | | Dec 31,2017
 | (In millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: | | | | | | | 
Revenues | $ | 20,257 | | | $ | 21,500 | | $ | 22,451 | | $ | 26,064 | | | $ | 24,750 | | $ | 26,010 | $ | 27,772 | $ | 32,323 | 
Costs and expenses: | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 7,648 | | | 8,130 | | | 8,699 | | 10,661 | | 9,795 | | | 10,373 | | | 11,148 | | 14,267
Research and development | 3,367 | | | 3,363 | | | 3,596 | | 3,622 | | 3,942 | | | 4,172 | | | 4,205 | | 4,306 
Sales and marketing | 2,387 | | | 2,415 | | | 2,565 | | 3,118 | | 2,644 | | | 2,897 | | | 3,042 | | 4,310 
General and administrative | 1,513 | | | 1,624 | | | 1,824 | | 2,024 | | 1,801 | | | 1,700 | | | 1,595 | | 1,776 
European Commission fine | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 2,736 | | | 0 | | 0 
Total costs and expenses | 14,915 | | | 15,532 | | | 16,684 | | 19,425 | | 18,182 | | | 21,878 | | | 19,990 | | 24,659
Income from operations | 5,342 | | | 5,968 | | | 5,767 | | 6,639 | | 6,568 | | | 4,132 | | | 7,782 | | 7,664 
Other income (expense), net | (213 | ) | | 151 | | | 278 | | 218 | | 251 | | | 245 | | | 197 | | 354 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes | 5,129 | | | 6,119 | | | 6,045 | | 6,857 | | 6,819 | | | 4,377 | | | 7,979 | | 8,018 
Provision for income taxes | 922 | | | 1,242 | | | 984 | | 1,524 | | 1,393 | | | 853 | | | 1,247 | | 11,038
Net income | $ | 4,207 | | | $ | 4,877 | | $ | 5,061 | | $ | 5,333 | | | $ | 5,426 | | $ | 3,524 | $ | 6,732 | $ | (3,020 | )
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 6.12 | | | $ | 7.11 | | $ | 7.36 | | $ | 7.73 | | | $ | 7.85 | | $ | 5.09 | $ | 9.71 | $ | (4.35 | )
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock | $ | 6.02 | | | $ | 7.00 | | $ | 7.25 | | $ | 7.56 | | | $ | 7.73 | | $ | 5.01 | $ | 9.57 | $ | (4.35 | )

Capital Resources and Liquidity
As of December 31, 2017, we had $101.9 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with $62.8 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market and other funds, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments issued by foreign governments, debt instruments issued by municipalities in the U.S., corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. From time to time, we may hold marketable equity securities obtained through acquisitions or strategic investments in private companies that subsequently go public.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted and we recorded a tax liability for the one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings of $10.2 billion, of which $890 million and $9.3 billion were presented within “income tax payable, current” and “income tax payable, non-current,” respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2017. As permitted by the Tax Act, we intend to pay the one-time transition tax in eight annual interest-free installments beginning in 2018.
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from our operations. We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2017. We have a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility expiring in February 2021. The interest rate for the credit facility is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. As of December 31, 2017, no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. We believe that our sources of funding will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements including capital expenditures, working capital requirements, potential acquisitions and other liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months. 
As of December 31, 2017, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 with a total carrying value of $3.9 billion and a total estimated fair value of $4.0 billion. 
In October 2016, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the repurchase of up to $7.0 billion of Alphabet Class C capital stock. In 2017, we repurchased and subsequently retired 5.2 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $4.8 billion. In January 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $8.6 billion of Alphabet Class C capital stock. The repurchases are expected to be executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans.
39


Alphabet Inc.

In January 2017, Temasek, a Singapore-based investment company, signed a binding commitment to purchase a non-controlling interest in Verily for an aggregate of $800 million in cash. We received the first tranche of $480 million in the first quarter of 2017 and the final tranche of $320 million in the third quarter of 2017.
The following table presents our cash flows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | 2017
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 26,572 | | $ | 36,036 | | $ | 37,091 | 
Net cash used in investing activities | $ | (23,711 | ) | $ | (31,165 | ) | $ | (31,401 | )
Net cash used in financing activities | $ | (4,225 | ) | $ | (8,332 | ) | $ | (8,298 | )

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Our largest source of cash provided by our operations are advertising revenues generated by Google properties and Google Network Members' properties. Additionally, we generate cash through sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees including fees received for Google Cloud offerings.
Our primary uses of cash from our operating activities include payments to our Google Network Members and distribution partners, and payments for content acquisition costs. In addition, uses of cash from operating activities include compensation and related costs, hardware costs, other general corporate expenditures, and income taxes.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2016 to 2017 primarily due to increases in cash received from advertising revenues and Google other revenues (net of payouts to app developers), offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues, operating expenses, and income taxes.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2015 to 2016 primarily due to increases in cash received from advertising revenues and Google other revenues, offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses. Additionally, the timing of tax payments and refunds had a favorable impact to our cash flows from operations for 2016 compared to 2015.
Cash Used in Investing Activities
Cash provided by or used in investing activities primarily consists of purchases of property and equipment, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities in our investment portfolio, cash collateral received or returned from our securities lending program, payments for acquisitions, and the proceeds from the collection of notes receivable.
Net cash used in investing activities increased slightly from 2016 to 2017 primarily due to increases in purchases of marketable securities and increases in purchases of property and equipment, offset by increases in the maturities and sales of marketable securities, decreases in cash collateral paid related to securities lending, and increase in proceeds received from collections of notes receivables.
Net cash used in investing activities increased from 2015 to 2016 primarily due to increases in purchases of marketable securities, increases in cash collateral paid related to securities lending and increases in spend related to acquisitions, partially offset by increases in maturities and sales of marketable securities and decreases in purchases of non-marketable investments.
Cash Used in Financing Activities
Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of net proceeds or payments from issuance or repayments of debt, repurchases of capital stock, and net proceeds or payments from stock-based award activities.
Net cash used in financing activities decreased slightly from 2016 to 2017 primarily driven by decreases in the net cash outflow from repayments and issuance of debt, offset by increases in the repurchases of capital stock. 
Net cash used in financing activities increased from 2015 to 2016 primarily driven by decreases in proceeds from issuance of debt, and increases in the repurchases of capital stock and net payments related to stock-based award activities, partially offset by a decrease in debt repayments. 
40


Alphabet Inc.

Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2017
The following summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017 (in millions):

 | Payments Due By Period
 | Total | | Less than1 year | | 1-3years | | 3-5years | More than5 years
Operating lease obligations, net of sublease income amounts(1) | $ | 8,753 | | | $ | 1,160 | | $ | 2,182 | $ | 1,796 | $ | 3,615 
Purchase obligations(2) | 7,154 | | | 4,548 | | | 1,910 | | 241 | 455 | 
Long-term debt obligations(3) | 4,744 | | | 112 | | | 224 | | 1,170 | 3,238 | 
Tax payable(4) | 10,233 | | | 890 | | | 1,746 | | 1,746 | 5,851 | 
Other long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet(5) | 2,416 | | | 348 | | | 619 | | 511 | 938 | 
Total contractual obligations | $ | 33,300 | | | $ | 7,058 | | $ | 6,681 | $ | 5,464 | $ | 14,097


(1) | For further information, refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


(2) | Represents non-cancelable contractual obligations primarily related to data center operations and build-outs; digital media content licensing arrangements; and purchases of inventory. The amounts included above represent the non-cancelable portion of agreements or the minimum cancellation fee. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of December 31, 2017. Excluded from the table above are open orders for purchases that support normal operations.


(3) | Represents our principal and interest payments. For further information on long-term debt, refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


(4) | Represents one-time transition tax payable related to known amounts of cash taxes payable in future years as a result of the Tax Act. For further information, refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Excluded from the table above are long-term taxes payable of $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2017 related to uncertain tax positions. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments for uncertain tax positions in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes.


(5) | Represents cash obligations recorded on our consolidated balance sheets, including the short-term portion of these long-term liabilities, and consist primarily of facility build-outs and payments owed in connection with certain commercial agreements.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of December 31, 2017, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations will be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors.
Please see Note 1 of Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the summary of significant accounting policies.
41


Alphabet Inc.

Revenues
For the sale of third-party goods and services, we evaluate whether we are the principal, and report revenues on a gross basis, or an agent, and report revenues on a net basis. In this assessment, we consider if we obtain control of the specified goods or services before they are transferred to the customer, as well as other indicators such as the party primarily responsible for fulfillment, inventory risk, and discretion in establishing price.
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions, determining our provision for income taxes, and evaluating the impact of the Tax Act.
The Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017 and introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments, which are referred to as the global intangible low-taxed income tax and the base erosion tax, respectively. In addition, in 2017 we are subject to a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Act. 
Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. The accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act will be completed in 2018.
Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made. 
The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Loss Contingencies
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, non-income taxes, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood of there being, and the estimated amount of, a loss related to such matters. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding contingencies.
Business Combinations
We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair values 
42


Alphabet Inc.

of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets.
Critical estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows (primarily from customer relationships and acquired patents and developed technology) and discount rates. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates.
Other estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as more fully discussed in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to reporting units expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairment tests require judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. 
Long-lived Assets
Long-lived assets, including property and equipment, long-term prepayments, and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows independent of other assets. An impairment loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows generated from the assets are less than their carrying amount. Measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value.
Impairment of Securities
We periodically review our securities for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. Factors we consider to make such determination include the duration and severity of the impairment, the reason for the decline in value and the potential recovery period and our intent to sell. For marketable debt securities, we also consider whether (1) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, and (2) the amortized cost basis cannot be recovered as a result of credit losses. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net.

ITEM 7A. | QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We transact business globally in multiple currencies. Our international revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. In general, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weakening of the U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro and Japanese yen.
We use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) to protect our forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency options and forwards reduce the foreign currency losses related to our earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency collars and forwards offset the foreign currency gains related to our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. We record the effective portion of these contracts as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and subsequently reclassify them into revenues to offset the hedged exposures as they occur. For foreign currency collars, we include the change in time value in our assessment of hedge effectiveness. For forwards and all other option contracts, we exclude the change in the forward points and time value 
43


Alphabet Inc.

from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. We recognize changes of the excluded components in other income (expense), net.
We considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 10% could be experienced in the near term. If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10% as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017, the amount recorded in AOCI related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been approximately $920 million and $950 million lower as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The change in the value recorded in AOCI would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in forecasted hedged revenues when recognized.
In addition, we use foreign exchange forward contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the subsidiary. These forward contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on the assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which are offset by the gains and losses on the forward contracts.
We considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. These reasonably possible adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% were applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currencies at the balance sheet dates to compute the adverse impact these changes would have had on our income before income taxes in the near term. These changes would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before income taxes of approximately $40 million and $52 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. The adverse impact as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 is after consideration of the offsetting effect of approximately $554 million and $374 million, respectively, from foreign exchange contracts in place for the months ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017. 
Interest Rate Risk
Our investment strategy is to achieve a return that will allow us to preserve capital and maintain liquidity requirements. We invest primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. By policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Unrealized gains or losses on our marketable debt securities are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations as a result of higher market interest rates compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. We account for both fixed and variable rate securities at fair value with changes on gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold. 
To enhance our assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we use value-at-risk (VaR) analysis to determine the potential impact of fluctuations in interest rates on the value of our marketable debt security portfolio. The VaR is the expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due to adverse movements in interest rates. We use a variance/covariance VaR model with 95% confidence interval. The estimated one-day loss in fair value of our marketable debt securities as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 are shown below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, | | 12-Month Average As of December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017 | 2016 | | 2017
Risk Category - Interest Rate | $ | 107 | | $ | 84 | | $ | 99 | $ | 87

Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes in interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. VaR analysis is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation.
44


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 8. | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Alphabet Inc.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 | Page
Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 46 
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 48 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 49 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 50 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 51 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 52 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 53 

The supplementary financial information required by this Item 8 is included in Item 7 under the caption “Quarterly Results of Operations.”
45


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)2 (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2016 and 2017, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report February 5, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP 
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1999.
San Jose, California 
February 5, 2018 

46


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Alphabet Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Alphabet Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)2, of the Company and our report dated February 5, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitation of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 5, 2018 

47


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except share and par value amounts which are reflected in thousands,
and par value per share amounts)

 | As of December 31, 2016 | | As ofDecember 31, 2017
Assets | | | 
Current assets: | | | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 12,918 | | | $ | 10,715 
Marketable securities | 73,415 | | | 91,156 | 
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | 86,333 | | | 101,871 | 
Accounts receivable, net of allowance of $467 and $674 | 14,137 | | | 18,336 | 
Income taxes receivable, net | 95 | | | 369 | 
Inventory | 268 | | | 749 | 
Other current assets | 4,575 | | | 2,983 | 
Total current assets | 105,408 | | | 124,308 | 
Non-marketable investments | 5,878 | | | 7,813 | 
Deferred income taxes | 383 | | | 680 | 
Property and equipment, net | 34,234 | | | 42,383 | 
Intangible assets, net | 3,307 | | | 2,692 | 
Goodwill | 16,468 | | | 16,747 | 
Other non-current assets | 1,819 | | | 2,672 | 
Total assets | $ | 167,497 | | | $ | 197,295
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity | | | 
Current liabilities: | | | 
Accounts payable | $ | 2,041 | | | $ | 3,137 
Accrued compensation and benefits | 3,976 | | | 4,581 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 6,144 | | | 10,177 | 
Accrued revenue share | 2,942 | | | 3,975 | 
Deferred revenue | 1,099 | | | 1,432 | 
Income taxes payable, net | 554 | | | 881 | 
Total current liabilities | 16,756 | | | 24,183 | 
Long-term debt | 3,935 | | | 3,969 | 
Deferred revenue, non-current | 202 | | | 340 | 
Income taxes payable, non-current | 4,677 | | | 12,812 | 
Deferred income taxes | 226 | | | 430 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 2,665 | | | 3,059 | 
Total liabilities | 28,461 | | | 44,793 | 
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 10) | | | | 
Stockholders’ equity: | | | 
Convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share, 100,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding | 0 | | | 0 | 
Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.001 par value per share: 15,000,000 shares authorized (Class A 9,000,000, Class B 3,000,000, Class C 3,000,000); 691,293 (Class A 296,992, Class B 47,437, Class C 346,864) and 694,783 (Class A 298,470, Class B 46,972, Class C 349,341) shares issued and outstanding | 36,307 | | | 40,247 | 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss | (2,402 | ) | | (992 | )
Retained earnings | 105,131 | | | 113,247 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 139,036 | | | 152,502 | 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity | $ | 167,497 | | | $ | 197,295

See accompanying notes.
48


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Revenues | $ | 74,989 | | | $ | 90,272 | | $ | 110,855
Costs and expenses: | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 28,164 | | | 35,138 | | | 45,583
Research and development | 12,282 | | | 13,948 | | | 16,625
Sales and marketing | 9,047 | | | 10,485 | | | 12,893
General and administrative | 6,136 | | | 6,985 | | | 6,872 
European Commission fine | 0 | | | 0 | | | 2,736 
Total costs and expenses | 55,629 | | | 66,556 | | | 84,709
Income from operations | 19,360 | | | 23,716 | | | 26,146
Other income (expense), net | 291 | | | 434 | | | 1,047 
Income before income taxes | 19,651 | | | 24,150 | | | 27,193
Provision for income taxes | 3,303 | | | 4,672 | | | 14,531
Net income | $ | 16,348 | | | $ | 19,478 | | $ | 12,662 
Less: Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 522 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Net income available to all stockholders | $ | 15,826 | | | $ | 19,478 | | $ | 12,662 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 23.11 | | | $ | 28.32 | | $ | 18.27 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 24.63 | | | $ | 28.32 | | $ | 18.27 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 22.84 | | | $ | 27.85 | | $ | 18.00 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 24.34 | | | $ | 27.85 | | $ | 18.00 

See accompanying notes.
49


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Net income | $ | 16,348 | | | $ | 19,478 | | | $ | 12,662
Other comprehensive income (loss): | | | | | 
Change in foreign currency translation adjustment | (1,067 | ) | | (599 | ) | | 1,543 | 
Available-for-sale investments: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | (715 | ) | | (314 | ) | | 307 | 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | 208 | | | 221 | | | 105 | 
Net change (net of tax effect of $29, $0, and $0) | (507 | ) | | (93 | ) | | 412 | 
Cash flow hedges: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 676 | | | 515 | | | (638 | )
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (1,003 | ) | | (351 | ) | | 93 | 
Net change (net of tax effect of $115, $64, and $247) | (327 | ) | | 164 | | | (545 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,901 | ) | | (528 | ) | | 1,410 | 
Comprehensive income | $ | 14,447 | | | $ | 18,950 | | | $ | 14,072

See accompanying notes.
50


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands)

 | Class A and Class BCommon Stock, Class C Capital Stock andAdditional Paid-In Capital | | AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss) | | RetainedEarnings | TotalStockholders’Equity
 | Shares | | Amount | 
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | 680,172 | | | $ | 28,767 | | $ | 27 | | | $ | 75,066 | | $ | 103,860
Common and capital stock issued | 8,714 | | | 664 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 664 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | | 5,151 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 5,151 | 
Stock-based compensation tax benefits | 0 | | | 815 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 815 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | 0 | | | (2,779 | ) | 0 | | | 0 | | | (2,779 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | (2,391 | ) | | (111 | ) | 0 | | | (1,669 | ) | | (1,780 | )
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 853 | | | 475 | | 0 | | | (522 | ) | | (47 | )
Net income | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | 16,348 | | | 16,348 | 
Other comprehensive loss | 0 | | | 0 | | (1,901 | ) | | 0 | | | (1,901 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | 687,348 | | | 32,982 | | (1,874 | ) | | 89,223 | | | 120,331 | 
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 180 | | 0 | | | (133 | ) | | 47 | 
Common and capital stock issued | 9,106 | | | 298 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 298 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | | 6,700 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 6,700 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | 0 | | | (3,597 | ) | 0 | | | 0 | | | (3,597 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | (5,161 | ) | | (256 | ) | 0 | | | (3,437 | ) | | (3,693 | )
Net income | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | 19,478 | | | 19,478 | 
Other comprehensive loss | 0 | | | 0 | | (528 | ) | | 0 | | | (528 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2016 | 691,293 | | | 36,307 | | (2,402 | ) | | 105,131 | | | 139,036 | 
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | (15 | ) | | (15 | )
Common and capital stock issued | 8,652 | | | 212 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 212 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 0 | | | 7,694 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 7,694 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | 0 | | | (4,373 | ) | 0 | | | 0 | | | (4,373 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | (5,162 | ) | | (315 | ) | 0 | | | (4,531 | ) | | (4,846 | )
Sale of subsidiary shares | 0 | | | 722 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 722 | 
Net income | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | 12,662 | | | 12,662 | 
Other comprehensive income | 0 | | | 0 | | 1,410 | | | 0 | | | 1,410 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2017 | 694,783 | | | $ | 40,247 | | $ | (992 | ) | | $ | 113,247 | | $ | 152,502

See accompanying notes.
51


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Operating activities | | | | | 
Net income | $ | 16,348 | | | $ | 19,478 | | | $ | 12,662
Adjustments: | | | | | 
Depreciation and impairment of property and equipment | 4,132 | | | 5,267 | | | 6,103 | 
Amortization and impairment of intangible assets | 931 | | | 877 | | | 812 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 5,203 | | | 6,703 | | | 7,679 | 
Deferred income taxes | (179 | ) | | (38 | ) | | 258 | 
Loss on marketable and non-marketable investments, net | 334 | | | 275 | | | 194 | 
Other | 212 | | | 174 | | | 137 | 
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions: | | | | | 
Accounts receivable | (2,094 | ) | | (2,578 | ) | | (3,768 | )
Income taxes, net | (179 | ) | | 3,125 | | | 8,211 | 
Other assets | (318 | ) | | 312 | | | (2,164 | )
Accounts payable | 203 | | | 110 | | | 731 | 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities | 1,597 | | | 1,515 | | | 4,891 | 
Accrued revenue share | 339 | | | 593 | | | 955 | 
Deferred revenue | 43 | | | 223 | | | 390 | 
Net cash provided by operating activities | 26,572 | | | 36,036 | | | 37,091 | 
Investing activities | | | | | 
Purchases of property and equipment | (9,950 | ) | | (10,212 | ) | | (13,184 | )
Proceeds from disposals of property and equipment | 35 | | | 240 | | | 99 | 
Purchases of marketable securities | (74,368 | ) | | (84,509 | ) | | (92,195 | )
Maturities and sales of marketable securities | 62,905 | | | 66,895 | | | 73,959 | 
Purchases of non-marketable investments | (2,326 | ) | | (1,109 | ) | | (1,745 | )
Maturities and sales of non-marketable investments | 154 | | | 494 | | | 533 | 
Cash collateral related to securities lending | (350 | ) | | (2,428 | ) | | 0 | 
Investments in reverse repurchase agreements | 425 | | | 450 | | | 0 | 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible assets | (236 | ) | | (986 | ) | | (287 | )
Proceeds from collection of notes receivable | 0 | | | 0 | | | 1,419 | 
Net cash used in investing activities | (23,711 | ) | | (31,165 | ) | | (31,401 | )
Financing activities | | | | | 
Net payments related to stock-based award activities | (2,375 | ) | | (3,304 | ) | | (4,166 | )
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | (47 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Repurchases of capital stock | (1,780 | ) | | (3,693 | ) | | (4,846 | )
Proceeds from issuance of debt, net of costs | 13,705 | | | 8,729 | | | 4,291 | 
Repayments of debt | (13,728 | ) | | (10,064 | ) | | (4,377 | )
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary shares | 0 | | | 0 | | | 800 | 
Net cash used in financing activities | (4,225 | ) | | (8,332 | ) | | (8,298 | )
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents | (434 | ) | | (170 | ) | | 405 | 
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents | (1,798 | ) | | (3,631 | ) | | (2,203 | )
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period | 18,347 | | | 16,549 | | | 12,918 | 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period | $ | 16,549 | | | $ | 12,918 | | | $ | 10,715
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information | | | | | 
Cash paid for taxes, net of refunds | $ | 3,651 | | | $ | 1,643 | | | $ | 6,191 
Cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized | $ | 96 | | | $ | 84 | | | $ | 84 

See accompanying notes.
52


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Nature of Operations
Google was incorporated in California in September 1998 and re-incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2003. In 2015, we implemented a holding company reorganization, and as a result, Alphabet Inc. (Alphabet) became the successor issuer to Google.
We generate revenues primarily by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet include the accounts of Alphabet and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. 
Use of Estimates
Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the accounts receivable and sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, income taxes, and contingent liabilities, among others. We base our estimates on assumptions, both historical and forward looking, that are believed to be reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenues when we transfer control of promised goods or services to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
See Note 2 for further discussion on Revenues.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of TAC and other costs of revenues. 
TAC represents the amounts paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
Other costs of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) include the following:

• | Amortization of certain intangible assets;


• | Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);


• | Credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions;


• | Expenses associated with our data centers and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expense (including SBC), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and


• | Inventory related costs for hardware we sell.

Stock-based Compensation
Stock-based compensation primarily consists of Alphabet restricted stock units (RSUs). RSUs are equity classified and measured at the fair market value of the underlying stock at the grant date. We recognize RSU expense using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period and account for forfeitures as they occur.
For RSUs, shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the applicable statutory tax withholding to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, fewer shares are issued than the number of RSUs outstanding. We record a liability for the tax withholding to be paid by us as a reduction to additional paid-in capital.
Additionally, stock-based compensation includes other types of stock-based awards that may be settled in the stock of our subsidiaries or in cash. Certain awards are liability classified and are remeasured at fair value through settlement.
Performance Fees
We have compensation arrangements with payouts based on investment returns. We recognize compensation expense based on the estimated payouts. The amounts are recorded in general and administrative expenses and were not material for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017.
Certain Risks and Concentrations
Our revenues are primarily derived from online advertising, the market for which is highly competitive and rapidly changing. In addition, our revenues are generated from a multitude of vertical market segments in countries around the world. Significant changes in this industry or changes in customer buying or advertiser spending behavior could adversely affect our operating results.
We are subject to concentrations of credit risk principally from cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. Cash equivalents and marketable securities consist primarily of time deposits, money market and other funds, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments issued by foreign governments, debt instruments issued by municipalities in the U.S., corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from customers located around the world. We perform ongoing evaluations to determine customer credit and we limit the amount of credit we extend. We generally do not require collateral from our customers. We maintain reserves for estimated credit losses and these losses have generally been within our expectations.
No individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than 10% of our revenues in 2015, 2016, or 2017. In 2015, 2016, and 2017, we generated approximately 46%, 47%, and 47% of our revenues, respectively, from customers based in the U.S. See Note 2 for further details.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative contracts, and non-marketable debt securities. Our financial assets that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis when impairment is identified or assets are held for sale include long-lived assets and non-marketable equity securities. Other financial assets and liabilities are carried at cost with fair value disclosed, if required.
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured and classified in accordance with a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the observability of the inputs available in the market used to measure fair value:
Level 1 - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2 - Include other inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activities.
The fair value hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. 
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
We invest all excess cash primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments.
53


Alphabet Inc.

We classify all investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and have stated maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase as cash equivalents and those with stated maturities of greater than three months as marketable securities.
We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. We have classified and accounted for our marketable securities as available-for-sale. After consideration of our risk versus reward objectives, as well as our liquidity requirements, we may sell these securities prior to their stated maturities. As we view these securities as available to support current operations, we classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond 12 months as current assets under the caption marketable securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We carry these securities at fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, as a component of stockholders’ equity, except for unrealized losses determined to be other-than-temporary, which we record within other income (expense), net. We determine any realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable securities on a specific identification method, and we record such gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net.
Non-Marketable Investments
We account for non-marketable equity investments either under the equity or cost method. Investments through which we exercise significant influence but do not have control over the investee are accounted for under the equity method. Investments through which we are not able to exercise significant influence over the investee are accounted for under the cost method. We classify non-marketable investments as non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as those investments do not have stated contractual maturity dates.
We account for our non-marketable investments that meet the definition of a debt security as available-for-sale securities. 
Variable Interest Entities
We determine at the inception of each arrangement whether an entity in which we have made an investment or in which we have other variable interests in is considered a Variable Interest Entity (VIE). We consolidate VIEs when we are deemed to be the primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that meets both of the following criteria: (1) has the power to make decisions that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE; and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE. Periodically, we determine whether any changes in our interest or relationship with the entity impact our determination of whether the entity is still a VIE and, if so, whether we are the primary beneficiary. If we are not deemed to be the primary beneficiary in a VIE, we account for the investment or other variable interests in a VIE in accordance with applicable GAAP.
Impairment of Investments
We periodically review our investments for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. Factors we consider to make such determination include the duration and severity of the impairment, the reason for the decline in value and the potential recovery period and our intent to sell. For debt securities, we also consider whether (1) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, and (2) the amortized cost basis cannot be recovered as a result of credit losses. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net.
Accounts Receivable
We record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to reserve for potentially uncollectible receivables. We review the accounts receivable by amounts due by customers which are past due to identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. In determining the amount of the reserve, we make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. We also maintain a sales allowance to reserve for potential credits issued to customers. We determine the amount of the reserve based on historical credits issued.
Property and Equipment
We account for property and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation. We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. We depreciate buildings over periods up to 25 years. We generally depreciate information technology assets over periods up to 7 years. We depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets. Construction in progress is the construction or development of property and equipment that have not yet been placed in service for 
54


Alphabet Inc.

our intended use. Depreciation for equipment, buildings, and leasehold improvements commences once they are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated.
Inventory
Inventory consists primarily of finished goods and is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is computed using the first-in, first-out method.
Software Development Costs
We expense software development costs, including costs to develop software products or the software component of products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, before technological feasibility is reached. Technological feasibility is typically reached shortly before the release of such products and as a result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented.
Software development costs also include costs to develop software to be used solely to meet internal needs and cloud based applications used to deliver our services. We capitalize development costs related to these software applications once the preliminary project stage is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented.
Business Combinations
We include the results of operations of the businesses that we acquire as of the acquisition date. We allocate the purchase price of our acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred.
Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets
We review property and equipment, long-term prepayments and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets or the asset group are expected to generate. If the carrying value of the assets are not recoverable, the impairment recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. Intangible asset impairments were not material in 2015, 2016, or 2017.
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the expected benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. No goodwill impairment occurred in 2015, 2016, or 2017.
Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We amortize intangible assets on a straight-line basis with definite lives over periods ranging from one to twelve years.
Income Taxes
We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which we recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based on provisions of enacted tax law. We evaluate the realization of our deferred tax assets based on all available evidence and establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will not be realized.
We recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not that, based on technical merits, the position will be sustained upon examination. The tax benefits of the position recognized in the financial statements are then measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. In addition, we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the income tax provision.
Foreign Currency
Generally, the functional currency of our international subsidiaries is the local currency. We translate the financial statements of these subsidiaries to U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. We record 
55


Alphabet Inc.

translation gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income as a component of stockholders’ equity. We reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion of the transaction currency to functional currency as a component of foreign currency exchange losses in other income (expense), net.
Advertising and Promotional Expenses
We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $3.2 billion, $3.9 billion, and $5.1 billion, respectively.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted
In January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01 (ASU 2016-01) "Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." ASU 2016-01 amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. The most significant impact to our consolidated financial statements relates to the recognition and measurement of equity investments at fair value in our consolidated statements of income. We have elected to use the measurement alternative, defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted by observable price changes. We anticipate that the adoption of ASU 2016-01 will increase the volatility of our other income (expense), net, as a result of the remeasurement of our equity securities upon the occurrence of observable price changes and impairments. We will adopt ASU 2016-01 effective January 1, 2018.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 (Topic 842) "Leases." Topic 842 supersedes the lease recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 840, "Leases." Under Topic 842, lessees are required to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most leases and provide enhanced disclosures. Leases will continue to be classified as either finance or operating. As currently issued, entities are required to use a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements. There are additional optional practical expedients that an entity may elect to apply. We anticipate that the adoption of Topic 842 will materially affect our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are in the process of implementing changes to our systems and processes in conjunction with our review of existing lease agreements. We will adopt Topic 842 effective January 1, 2019 and expect to elect certain available transitional practical expedients.
In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 (ASU 2016-13) "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" which requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost. ASU 2016-13 replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of credit losses. ASU 2016-13 is effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-16 (ASU 2016-16) "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory." ASU 2016-16 generally accelerates the recognition of income tax consequences for asset transfers between entities under common control. Entities are required to adopt using a modified retrospective approach with a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption for previously unrecognized income tax expense. We anticipate a retained earnings adjustment of approximately $700 million upon adoption related to the unrecognized income tax effects of asset transfers that occurred prior to adoption. We will adopt ASU 2016-16 effective January 1, 2018.
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-04 (ASU 2017-04) “Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment.” ASU 2017-04 eliminates step two of the goodwill impairment test and specifies that goodwill impairment should be measured by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. Additionally, the amount of goodwill allocated to each reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount of net assets should be disclosed. ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual or interim goodwill impairment tests performed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019; early adoption is permitted. We currently do not anticipate that the adoption of ASU 2017-04 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Recently adopted accounting pronouncements
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 (Topic 606) "Revenue from Contracts with Customers." Topic 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605 “Revenue 
56


Alphabet Inc.

Recognition” (Topic 605), and requires entities to recognize revenues when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. We adopted Topic 606 as of January 1, 2017 using the modified retrospective transition method. See Note 2 for further details.
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-01 (ASU 2017-01) “Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business.” ASU 2017-01 provides guidance to evaluate whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. If substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired (or disposed of) is concentrated in a single asset or a group of similar assets, the assets acquired (or disposed of) are not considered a business. We adopted ASU 2017-01 as of January 1, 2017 on a prospective basis and there was no material impact to our consolidated financial statements.
Prior Period Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
Note 2. Revenues
Adoption of ASC Topic 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers"
On January 1, 2017, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2017. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2017 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605.
We recorded a net reduction to opening retained earnings of $15 million, net of tax, as of January 1, 2017 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, with the impact primarily related to our non-advertising revenues. The impact to revenues as a result of applying Topic 606 was an increase of $34 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017. 
Revenue Recognition
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by revenue source (in millions). Sales and usage-based taxes are excluded from revenues.

 | Twelve Months Ended
 | December 31, 
 | 2015(1) | | 2016(1) | | 2017
Google properties | $ | 52,357 | | | $ | 63,785 | | $ | 77,788 
Google Network Members' properties | 15,033 | | | 15,598 | | | 17,587
Google advertising revenues | 67,390 | | | 79,383 | | | 95,375
Google other revenues | 7,154 | | | 10,080 | | | 14,277
Other Bets revenues | 445 | | | 809 | | | 1,203 
Total revenues(2) | $ | 74,989 | | | $ | 90,272 | | $ | 110,855


(1) | As noted above, prior period amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method.


(2) | Revenues include hedging gains (losses) of $1.4 billion, $539 million, and $(169) million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively, which do not represent revenues recognized from contracts with customers.

57


Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the billing addresses of our customers (in millions):

 | Twelve Months Ended
 | December 31, 
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
United States | $ | 34,810 | | | $ | 42,781 | | $ | 52,449 
EMEA(1) | 26,368 | | | 30,304 | | | 36,046
APAC(1) | 9,887 | | | 12,559 | | | 16,235
Other Americas(1) | 3,924 | | | 4,628 | | | 6,125 
Total revenues(2) | $ | 74,989 | | | $ | 90,272 | | $ | 110,855


(1) | Regions represent Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific (APAC); and Canada and Latin America (Other Americas).


(2) | Revenues include hedging gains (losses) for the the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017.

Advertising Revenues
We generate revenues primarily by delivering advertising on Google properties and Google Network Members’ properties.
Google properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated on Google.com, the Google Search app, and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, and YouTube.
Google Network Members’ properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated on Google Network Members’ properties.
Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through AdWords, DoubleClick AdExchange, and DoubleClick Bid Manager, among others.
Most of our customers pay us on a cost-per-click basis (CPC), which means that an advertiser pays us only when a user clicks on an ad on Google properties or Google Network Members' properties or views certain YouTube engagement ads. For these customers, we recognize revenue each time a user clicks on the ad or when a user views the ad for a specified period of time.
We also offer advertising on other bases such as cost-per-impression (CPM), which means an advertiser pays us based on the number of times their ads are displayed on Google properties or Google Network Members’ properties. For these customers, we recognize revenue each time an ad is displayed.
Certain customers may receive cash-based incentives or credits, which are accounted for as variable consideration. We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenues recognized. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration.
For ads placed on Google Network Members’ properties, we evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis). Generally, we report advertising revenues for ads placed on Google Network Members’ properties on a gross basis, that is, the amounts billed to our customers are recorded as revenues, and amounts paid to Google Network Members are recorded as cost of revenues. Where we are the principal, we control the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers. Our control is evidenced by our sole ability to monetize the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers, and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing. 
Other Revenues
Google other revenues and Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues from:

• | Apps, in-app purchases, and digital content in the Google Play store;


• | Google Cloud offerings;


• | Hardware; and


• | Other miscellaneous products and services.

As it relates to Google other revenues, the most significant judgment is determining whether we are the principal or agent for app sales and in-app purchases through the Google Play store. We report revenues from these transactions on a net basis because our performance obligation is to facilitate a transaction between app developers and end users, 
58


Alphabet Inc.

for which we earn a commission. Consequently, the portion of the gross amount billed to end users that is remitted to app developers is not reflected as revenues.
Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations
Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We generally determine standalone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus margin.
Deferred Revenues
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance, including amounts which are refundable. The increase in the deferred revenue balance for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 is primarily driven by cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, offset by $985 million of revenues recognized that were included in the deferred revenue balance as of December 31, 2016.
Our payment terms vary by the type and location of our customer and the products or services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
Practical Expedients and Exemptions
We generally expense sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses.
We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed.
Note 3. Financial Instruments
We classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities within Level 1 or Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we use quoted market prices or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs to determine their fair value. We classify our foreign currency and interest rate derivative contracts primarily within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments.
59


Alphabet Inc.

Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
 The following tables summarize our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities by significant investment categories as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2016
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Cash | $ | 7,078 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 7,078 | | $ | 7,078 | $ | 0 
Level 1: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Money market and other funds | 4,783 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 4,783 | | 4,783 | | 0 | 
U.S. government notes | 38,454 | | | 46 | | | (215 | ) | | 38,285 | | 613 | | 37,672 | 
Marketable equity securities | 160 | | | 133 | | | 0 | | | 293 | | 0 | | 293 | 
 | 43,397 | | | 179 | | | (215 | ) | | 43,361 | | 5,396 | | 37,965 | 
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | 142 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 142 | | 140 | | 2 | 
Mutual funds(2) | 204 | | | 7 | | | 0 | | | 211 | | 0 | | 211 | 
U.S. government agencies | 1,826 | | | 0 | | | (11 | ) | | 1,815 | | 300 | | 1,515 | 
Foreign government bonds | 2,345 | | | 18 | | | (7 | ) | | 2,356 | | 0 | | 2,356 | 
Municipal securities | 4,757 | | | 15 | | | (65 | ) | | 4,707 | | 2 | | 4,705 | 
Corporate debt securities | 12,993 | | | 114 | | | (116 | ) | | 12,991 | | 2 | | 12,989 | 
Mortgage-backed securities | 12,006 | | | 26 | | | (216 | ) | | 11,816 | | 0 | | 11,816 | 
Asset-backed securities | 1,855 | | | 2 | | | (1 | ) | | 1,856 | | 0 | | 1,856 | 
 | 36,128 | | | 182 | | | (416 | ) | | 35,894 | | 444 | | 35,450 | 
Total | $ | 86,603 | | | $ | 361 | | | $ | (631 | ) | $ | 86,333 | | $ | 12,918 | $ | 73,415


 | As of December 31, 2017
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Cash | $ | 7,158 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 7,158 | | $ | 7,158 | $ | 0 
Level 1: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Money market and other funds | 1,833 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 1,833 | | 1,833 | | 0 | 
U.S. government notes | 37,256 | | | 2 | | | (310 | ) | | 36,948 | | 1,241 | | 35,707 | 
Marketable equity securities | 242 | | | 100 | | | (2 | ) | | 340 | | 0 | | 340 | 
 | 39,331 | | | 102 | | | (312 | ) | | 39,121 | | 3,074 | | 36,047 | 
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | 359 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 359 | | 357 | | 2 | 
Mutual funds(2) | 232 | | | 20 | | | 0 | | | 252 | | 0 | | 252 | 
U.S. government agencies | 3,713 | | | 0 | | | (29 | ) | | 3,684 | | 0 | | 3,684 | 
Foreign government bonds | 2,948 | | | 6 | | | (14 | ) | | 2,940 | | 0 | | 2,940 | 
Municipal securities | 7,631 | | | 2 | | | (53 | ) | | 7,580 | | 0 | | 7,580 | 
Corporate debt securities | 24,269 | | | 21 | | | (135 | ) | | 24,155 | | 126 | | 24,029 | 
Mortgage-backed securities | 11,157 | | | 9 | | | (163 | ) | | 11,003 | | 0 | | 11,003 | 
Asset-backed securities | 5,632 | | | 4 | | | (17 | ) | | 5,619 | | 0 | | 5,619 | 
 | 55,941 | | | 62 | | | (411 | ) | | 55,592 | | 483 | | 55,109 | 
Total | $ | 102,430 | | | $ | 164 | | | $ | (723 | ) | $ | 101,871 | | $ | 10,715 | $ | 91,156


(1) | The majority of our time deposits are foreign deposits.


(2) | The fair value option was elected for mutual funds with gains (losses) recognized in other income (expense), net.

We determine realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable securities on a specific identification method. We recognized gross realized gains of $357 million, $272 million, and $207 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively. We recognized gross realized losses of $565 million, $482 million, and $287 million
60


Alphabet Inc.

for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively. We reflect these gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of our investments in marketable debt securities, accounted for as available-for-sale securities and classified by the contractual maturity date of the securities (in millions):

 | As ofDecember 31, 2017
Due in 1 year | $ | 19,486
Due in 1 year through 5 years | 56,056 | 
Due in 5 years through 10 years | 2,676 | 
Due after 10 years | 12,346 | 
Total | $ | 90,564

Impairment Considerations for Marketable Investments
The following tables present gross unrealized losses and fair values for those investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, aggregated by investment category and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position (in millions): 

 | As of December 31, 2016
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
U.S. government notes | $ | 26,411 | | | $ | (215 | ) | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 26,411 | $ | (215 | )
U.S. government agencies | 1,014 | | | (11 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 1,014 | | | (11 | )
Foreign government bonds | 956 | | | (7 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 956 | | | (7 | )
Municipal securities | 3,461 | | | (63 | ) | | 46 | | (2 | ) | 3,507 | | | (65 | )
Corporate debt securities | 6,184 | | | (111 | ) | | 166 | | (5 | ) | 6,350 | | | (116 | )
Mortgage-backed securities | 10,184 | | | (206 | ) | | 259 | | (10 | ) | 10,443 | | | (216 | )
Asset-backed securities | 391 | | | (1 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 391 | | | (1 | )
Total | $ | 48,601 | | | $ | (614 | ) | $ | 471 | | $ | (17 | ) | | $ | 49,072 | $ | (631 | )


 | As of December 31, 2017
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
U.S. government notes | $ | 18,325 | | | $ | (134 | ) | $ | 16,136 | | $ | (176 | ) | | $ | 34,461 | $ | (310 | )
U.S. government agencies | 2,913 | | | (22 | ) | | 767 | | (7 | ) | 3,680 | | | (29 | )
Foreign government bonds | 1,932 | | | (8 | ) | | 342 | | (6 | ) | 2,274 | | | (14 | )
Municipal securities | 5,666 | | | (47 | ) | | 415 | | (6 | ) | 6,081 | | | (53 | )
Corporate debt securities | 18,300 | | | (114 | ) | | 1,710 | | (21 | ) | 20,010 | | | (135 | )
Mortgage-backed securities | 7,261 | | | (89 | ) | | 3,314 | | (74 | ) | 10,575 | | | (163 | )
Asset-backed securities | 3,800 | | | (16 | ) | | 135 | | (1 | ) | 3,935 | | | (17 | )
Marketable equity securities | 39 | | | (2 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 39 | | | (2 | )
Total | $ | 58,236 | | | $ | (432 | ) | $ | 22,819 | | $ | (291 | ) | | $ | 81,055 | $ | (723 | )

During the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized $281 million of other-than-temporary impairment losses related to our marketable equity securities and fixed-income bond funds. Those losses are included in gain (loss) on marketable securities, net as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 7 for further details on other income (expense), net.
Derivative Financial Instruments
We recognize derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. We record changes in the fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of the derivatives in the Consolidated Statements of 
61


Alphabet Inc.

Income as either other income (expense), net, or revenues, or in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), as discussed below.
We enter into foreign currency contracts with financial institutions to reduce the risk that our cash flows and earnings will be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We also use interest rate derivative contracts to hedge interest rate exposures on our fixed income securities and debt issuances. Our program is not used for trading or speculative purposes.
We enter into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. To further reduce credit risk, we enter into collateral security arrangements under which the counterparty is required to provide collateral when the net fair value of certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. We can take possession of the collateral in the event of counterparty default. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, we received cash collateral related to the derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements of $362 million and $15 million, respectively.
Cash Flow Hedges
We use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options), designated as cash flow hedges to hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and at times we use interest rate swaps to effectively lock interest rates on anticipated debt issuances. These transactions are designated as cash flow hedges. The notional principal of these contracts was approximately $10.7 billion and $11.7 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. These contracts have maturities of 2 years or less.
We reflect the gains or losses on the effective portion of a cash flow hedge as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassify cumulative gains and losses to revenues or interest expense when the hedged transactions are recorded. If the hedged transactions become probable of not occurring, the corresponding amounts in AOCI are immediately reclassified to other income (expense), net. For foreign currency collars, we include the change in time value in our assessment of hedge effectiveness. For other foreign currency options and forward contracts, we exclude the change in the forward points and time value from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. We recognize changes of the excluded components in other income (expense), net.
As of December 31, 2017, the effective portion of our cash flow hedges before tax effect was a net accumulated loss of $187 million, of which a net loss of $219 million is expected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings within the next 12 months.
Fair Value Hedges
We use forward contracts designated as fair value hedges to hedge foreign currency risks for our investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We exclude changes in forward points for forward contracts from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The notional principal of these contracts was $2.4 billion and $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
Gains and losses on these forward contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net, along with the offsetting gains and losses of the related hedged items.
Other Derivatives
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward contracts that we use to hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of a subsidiary. We recognize gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs in other income (expense), net, along with the foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities. The notional principal of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts was $7.9 billion and $15.2 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
62


Alphabet Inc.

The fair values of our outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | | As of December 31, 2016 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other current and non-current assets | $ | 539 | | $ | 57 | $ | 596
Total | | $ | 539 | | $ | 57 | $ | 596
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 4 | | $ | 9 | $ | 13 
Total | | $ | 4 | | $ | 9 | $ | 13 


 | | As of December 31, 2017 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other current and non-current assets | $ | 51 | | $ | 29 | $ | 80 
Total | | $ | 51 | | $ | 29 | $ | 80 
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 230 | | $ | 122 | $ | 352
Total | | $ | 230 | | $ | 122 | $ | 352

The effect of derivative instruments in cash flow hedging relationships on income and other comprehensive income (OCI) is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in OCIon Derivatives Before Tax Effect (Effective Portion)
 | Year Ended December 31, 
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship | 2015 | | 2016 | 2017
Foreign exchange contracts | $ | 964 | | $ | 773 | $ | (955 | )


 | Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI into Income (Effective Portion)
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship | Location | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Foreign exchange contracts | Revenues | $ | 1,399 | | | $ | 539 | | $ | (169 | )
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 5 | | | 5 | | | 5
Total | | $ | 1,404 | | | $ | 544 | | $ | (164 | )

63


Alphabet Inc.


 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income on Derivatives (AmountExcluded from Effectiveness Testing and Ineffective Portion) (1) 
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship | Location | 2015 | | 2016 | 2017
Foreign exchange contracts | Other income (expense), net | $ | (297 | ) | $ | (381 | ) | $ | 83


(1) | Gains (losses) related to the ineffective portion of the hedges were not material in all periods presented.

The effect of derivative instruments in fair value hedging relationships on income is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income on Derivatives(2)
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives in Fair Value Hedging Relationship | Location | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Foreign Exchange Hedges: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other income (expense), net | $ | 170 | | | $ | 145 | | $ | (174 | )
Hedged item | Other income (expense), net | (176 | ) | | (139 | ) | | 197
Total | | $ | (6 | ) | | $ | 6 | | $ | 23 | 


(2) | Amounts excluded from effectiveness testing and the ineffective portion of the fair value hedging relationships were not material in all periods presented.

The effect of derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments on income is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income on Derivatives
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives Not Designated As Hedging Instruments | Location | 2015 | | 2016 | 2017
Foreign exchange contracts | Other income (expense), net | $ | 198 | | $ | 130 | $ | (230 | )

Offsetting of Derivatives
We present our forwards and purchased options at gross fair values in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For foreign currency collars, we present at net fair values where both purchased and written options are with the same counterparty. Our master netting and other similar arrangements allow net settlements under certain conditions. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, information related to these offsetting arrangements were as follows (in millions):
64


Alphabet Inc.

Offsetting of Assets

 | As of December 31, 2016 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 596 | | $ | 0 | | $ | 596 | | $ | (11 | ) | (1) | $ | (337 | ) | $ | (73 | ) | $ | 175
 | As of December 31, 2017 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 102 | | $ | (22 | ) | $ | 80 | | $ | (64 | ) | (1) | $ | (4 | ) | $ | (2 | ) | $ | 10 


(1) | The balances as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 were related to derivative liabilities which are allowed to be net settled against derivative assets in accordance with our master netting agreements.

Offsetting of Liabilities

 | As of December 31, 2016 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 13 | | $ | 0 | | $ | 13 | | $ | (11 | ) | (2) | $ | 0 | $ | 0 | $ | 2 
 | As of December 31, 2017 
 | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset
 | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 374 | | $ | (22 | ) | $ | 352 | | $ | (64 | ) | (2) | $ | 0 | $ | 0 | $ | 288


(2) | The balances as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 were related to derivative assets which are allowed to be net settled against derivative liabilities in accordance with our master netting agreements.

Note 4. Non-Marketable Investments
Our non-marketable investments include non-marketable equity investments and non-marketable debt securities. 
Non-Marketable Equity Investments 
Our non-marketable equity investments are investments in privately-held companies accounted for under the equity or cost method and are not required to be consolidated under the variable interest or voting models. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, investments accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of approximately $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. Our share of gains and losses in equity method investments including impairment was a net loss of $227 million, $202 million, and $156 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, investments accounted for under the cost method had a carrying value of $3.0 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively, and a fair value of approximately $8.1 billion and $8.8 billion, respectively. The fair value of the cost method investments are primarily determined from data leveraging private-market transactions and are classified within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. We reflect our share of equity 
65


Alphabet Inc.

method investee earnings and losses and impairments of non-marketable equity investments as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Non-Marketable Debt Securities
Our non-marketable debt securities are primarily preferred stock that are redeemable at our option and convertible notes issued by private companies and measured at fair value as available for sale debt securities. The cost of these securities was $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017. These debt securities do not have readily determinable market values and are categorized accordingly as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. To estimate the fair value of these securities, we use a combination of valuation methodologies, including market and income approaches based on prior transaction prices; estimated timing, probability, and amount of cash flows; and illiquidity considerations. Financial information of private companies may not be available and consequently we estimate the value based on the best available information at the measurement date. 
The following table presents a reconciliation for our non-marketable debt securities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
2016 | | 2017 
Beginning balance | $ | 1,024 | | $ | 1,165
Total net gains (losses) | | 
Included in earnings | 0 | | (10 | )
Included in other comprehensive income | 106 | | 707 | 
Purchases | 78 | | 88 | 
Sales | (18 | ) | (2 | )
Settlements | (25 | ) | (54 | )
Ending balance | $ | 1,165 | | $ | 1,894

Note 5. Variable Interest Entities (VIEs)
Consolidated VIEs
We consolidate VIEs in which we hold a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. The results of operations and statements of financial position of these VIEs are included in our consolidated financial statements. 
 For certain consolidated VIEs, their assets are not available to us and their creditors do not have recourse to us. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, assets that can only be used to settle obligations of these VIEs were $1.1 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, and the liabilities for which creditors do not have recourse to us were $668 million and $997 million, respectively. 
Calico
Calico is a life science company with a mission to harness advanced technologies to increase our understanding of the biology that controls lifespan. As of December 31, 2017, we have contributed $240 million to Calico in exchange for Calico convertible preferred units and are committed to fund an additional $490 million on an as-needed basis. 
In September 2014, AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) and Calico announced a research and development collaboration agreement intended to help both companies discover, develop, and bring to market new therapies for patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer. As of December 31, 2017, AbbVie has contributed $750 million to fund the collaboration pursuant to the agreement, which reflects its total commitment. As of December 31, 2017, Calico has contributed $250 million and committed up to an additional $500 million.
Calico has used its scientific expertise to establish a world-class research and development facility, with a focus on drug discovery and early drug development; and AbbVie provides scientific and clinical development support and its commercial expertise to bring new discoveries to market. Both companies share costs and profits equally. AbbVie's contribution has been recorded as a liability on Calico's financial statements, which is reduced and reflected as a reduction to research and development expense as eligible research and development costs are incurred by Calico. 
Verily
Verily is a life science company with a mission to make the world's health data useful so that people enjoy healthier lives. 
66


Alphabet Inc.

In January 2017, Temasek, a Singapore-based investment company, signed a binding commitment to purchase a noncontrolling interest in Verily for an aggregate of $800 million in cash. In February 2017, the first tranche of the investment closed and we received $480 million. The second and final tranche of the investment closed in July 2017 and we received the remaining $320 million. The transaction is accounted for as an equity transaction and no gain or loss was recognized. Of the $800 million received, $78 million was recorded as noncontrolling interest and $722 million was recorded as additional paid-in capital. Noncontrolling interest and net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest were not separately presented on our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 as the amounts were not material.
Unconsolidated VIEs
Certain renewable energy investments included in our non-marketable equity investments accounted for under the equity method are VIEs. These entities' activities involve power generation using renewable sources. We have determined that the governance structures of these entities do not allow us to direct the activities that would significantly impact their economic performance such as setting operating budgets. Therefore, we do not consolidate these VIEs in our consolidated financial statements. The carrying value and maximum exposure of these VIEs were $1.2 billion and $0.9 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. The maximum exposure is based on current investments to date.  We have determined the single source of our exposure to these VIEs is our capital investment in them.
Other unconsolidated VIEs were not material as of December 31, 2016 and 2017.
Note 6. Debt
Short-Term Debt
We have a debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 
Long-Term Debt
Google issued $3.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in three tranches (collectively, 2011 Notes) in May 2011, due in 2014, 2016, and 2021, as well as $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes (2014 Notes) in February 2014 due in 2024. 
In April 2016, we completed an exchange offer with eligible holders of Google’s 2011 Notes due 2021 and 2014 Notes due 2024 (collectively, the Google Notes). An aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.7 billion of the Google Notes was exchanged for approximately $1.7 billion of Alphabet notes with identical interest rate and maturity. Because the exchange was between a parent and the subsidiary company and for substantially identical notes, the change was treated as a debt modification for accounting purposes with no gain or loss recognized. 
In August 2016, Alphabet issued $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes (2016 Notes) due 2026. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2016 Notes were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of outstanding commercial paper. The Alphabet notes due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 rank equally with each other and are structurally subordinate to the outstanding Google Notes.
 The total outstanding long-term debt is summarized below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2016 | | As ofDecember 31, 2017
3.625% Notes due on May 19, 2021 | $ | 1,000 | | | $ | 1,000
3.375% Notes due on February 25, 2024 | 1,000 | | | 1,000 | 
1.998% Notes due on August 15, 2026 | 2,000 | | | 2,000 | 
Unamortized discount for the Notes above | (65 | ) | | (57 | )
Subtotal(1) | $ | 3,935 | | | $ | 3,943
Capital lease obligation | 0 | | | 26 | 
Total long-term debt | $ | 3,935 | | | $ | 3,969


(1) | Includes the outstanding (and unexchanged) Google Notes issued in 2011 and 2014 and the Alphabet notes exchanged in 2016.

The effective interest yields based on proceeds received from the outstanding notes due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 were 3.734%, 3.377%, and 2.231%, respectively, with interest payable semi-annually. We may redeem these notes at any time in whole or in part at specified redemption prices. The total estimated fair value of all outstanding notes 
67


Alphabet Inc.

was approximately $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2016 and $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2017. The fair value was determined based on observable market prices of identical instruments in less active markets and is categorized accordingly as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt including long-term capital leases for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (in millions):

2018 | $ | 0 
2019 | 1 | 
2020 | 1 | 
2021 | 1,001 | 
2022 | 1 | 
Thereafter | 3,022 | 
Total | $ | 4,026

Credit Facility
We have a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility which expires in February 2021. The interest rate for the credit facility is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. No amounts were outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017.
Note 7. Supplemental Financial Statement Information
Property and Equipment, Net
Property and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2016 | | As ofDecember 31, 2017
Land and buildings | $ | 19,804 | | | $ | 23,183
Information technology assets | 16,084 | | | 21,429 | 
Construction in progress | 8,166 | | | 10,491 | 
Leasehold improvements | 3,415 | | | 4,496 | 
Furniture and fixtures | 58 | | | 48 | 
Property and equipment, gross | 47,527 | | | 59,647 | 
Less: accumulated depreciation | (13,293 | ) | | (17,264 | )
Property and equipment, net | $ | 34,234 | | | $ | 42,383

As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, assets under capital lease with a cost basis of $299 million and $390 million were included in property and equipment, respectively. 
Note Receivable
In connection with the sale of our Motorola Mobile business to Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo) in October 2014, we received an interest-free, three-year prepayable promissory note (Note Receivable) due October 2017. The Note Receivable was included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in other current assets as of December 31, 2016. Based on the general market conditions and the credit quality of Lenovo at the time of the sale, we discounted the Note Receivable at an effective interest rate of 4.5%. As of December 31, 2016, the outstanding principal was $1.4 billion with an unamortized discount of $51 million, and we did not recognize a valuation allowance. The Note Receivable was fully repaid in May 2017.
68


Alphabet Inc.

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2016 | | As ofDecember 31, 2017
European Commission fine(1) | $ | 0 | | | $ | 2,874 
Accrued customer liabilities | 1,256 | | | 1,489 | 
Other accrued expenses and current liabilities | 4,888 | | | 5,814 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | $ | 6,144 | | | $ | 10,177


(1) | Includes the effects of foreign exchange and interest.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The components of AOCI, net of tax, were as follows (in millions):

 | Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Investments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges | | Total 
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | $ | (980 | ) | | $ | 421 | | | $ | 586 | | $ | 27 | 
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (1,067 | ) | | (715 | ) | | 676 | | | (1,106 | )
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 208 | | | (1,003 | ) | | (795 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,067 | ) | | (507 | ) | | (327 | ) | | (1,901 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | $ | (2,047 | ) | | $ | (86 | ) | | $ | 259 | | $ | (1,874 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (599 | ) | | (314 | ) | | 515 | | | (398 | )
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 221 | | | (351 | ) | | (130 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (599 | ) | | (93 | ) | | 164 | | | (528 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2016 | $ | (2,646 | ) | | $ | (179 | ) | | $ | 423 | | $ | (2,402 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | 1,543 | | | 307 | | | (638 | ) | | 1,212 | 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 105 | | | 93 | | | 198 | 
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 1,543 | | | 412 | | | (545 | ) | | 1,410 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2017 | $ | (1,103 | ) | | $ | 233 | | | $ | (122 | ) | $ | (992 | )

The effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI were as follows (in millions):

 | | Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI to the Consolidated Statement of Income
 | | Year Ended December 31, 
AOCI Components | Location | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments | | | | 
 | Other income (expense), net | $ | (208 | ) | | $ | (221 | ) | $ | (105 | )
 | Provision for income taxes | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 
 | Net of tax | $ | (208 | ) | | $ | (221 | ) | $ | (105 | )
Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Revenue | $ | 1,399 | | | $ | 539 | | $ | (169 | )
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 5 | | | 5 | | | 5 
 | Benefit (provision) for income taxes | (401 | ) | | (193 | ) | | 71
 | Net of tax | $ | 1,003 | | | $ | 351 | | $ | (93 | )
Total amount reclassified, net of tax | | $ | 795 | | | $ | 130 | | $ | (198 | )

69


Alphabet Inc.

Other Income (Expense), Net 
The components of other income (expense), net, were as follows (in millions): 

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Interest income | $ | 999 | | | $ | 1,220 | | | $ | 1,312
Interest expense(1) | (104 | ) | | (124 | ) | | (109 | )
Foreign currency exchange losses, net (2) | (422 | ) | | (475 | ) | | (121 | )
Loss on marketable securities, net | (208 | ) | | (210 | ) | | (80 | )
Loss on non-marketable investments, net | (126 | ) | | (65 | ) | | (114 | )
Other | 152 | | | 88 | | | 159 | 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 291 | | | $ | 434 | | | $ | 1,047


(1) | Interest expense is net of interest capitalized of $0 million, $0 million, and $48 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively.


(2) | Our foreign currency exchange losses, net, are related to the option premium costs and forward points for our foreign currency hedging contracts, our foreign exchange transaction gains and losses from the conversion of the transaction currency to the functional currency, offset by the foreign currency hedging contract losses and gains. The net foreign currency transaction losses were $123 million, $112 million, and $226 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively.

Note 8. Acquisitions
2017 Acquisitions
During the year ended December 31, 2017, we completed various acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $322 million. In aggregate, $12 million was cash acquired, $117 million was attributed to intangible assets, $221 million was attributed to goodwill, and $28 million was attributed to net liabilities assumed. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings and expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $60 million.
Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in aggregate.
For all intangible assets acquired and purchased during the year ended December 31, 2017, patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of 3.7 years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of 2.0 years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of 8.8 years.
Agreement with HTC Corporation (HTC)
In January 2018, we completed the acquisition of a team of engineers and a non-exclusive license of intellectual property from HTC for $1.1 billion in cash. The transaction will be accounted for as a business combination. We expect this transaction to accelerate Google’s ongoing hardware efforts. We are currently in the process of valuing the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction. We will provide all required disclosures upon the completion of the valuation in the first quarter of 2018.
2016 Acquisitions
Apigee
In October 2016, we completed the acquisition of Apigee Corp., a provider of application programming interface (API) management, for approximately $571 million in cash. We expect the acquisition to accelerate our Google Cloud customers’ move to supporting their businesses with high quality digital interactions. Of the total purchase price of $571 million, $41 million was cash acquired, $127 million was attributed to intangible assets, $376 million was attributed to goodwill, and $27 million was attributed to net assets acquired. Goodwill, which was recorded in the Google segment, is primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition and is not deductible for tax purposes.
Other Acquisitions
During the year ended December 31, 2016, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $448 million. In aggregate, $12 million was cash acquired, $143 million was attributed to intangible assets, $288 million was attributed to goodwill, and $5 million was attributed to net assets acquired. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expanding our 
70


Alphabet Inc.

expertise in engineering and other functional areas. The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $67 million.
Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in aggregate.
For all intangible assets acquired and purchased during the year ended December 31, 2016, patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of 4.5 years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of 3.4 years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of 6.2 years.
Note 9. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to our disclosed segments for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017 were as follows (in millions):

 | Google | | Other Bets | | Total Consolidated
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | $ | 15,456 | | | $ | 413 | | | $ | 15,869
Acquisitions | 625 | | | 39 | | | 664 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | (54 | ) | | (11 | ) | | (65 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2016 | $ | 16,027 | | | $ | 441 | | | $ | 16,468
Acquisitions | 212 | | | 9 | | | 221 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | 56 | | | 2 | | | 58 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2017 | $ | 16,295 | | | $ | 452 | | | $ | 16,747

Other Intangible Assets
Information regarding purchased intangible assets were as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2016
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingAmount
Patents and developed technology | $ | 5,542 | | | $ | 2,710 | | $ | 2,832
Customer relationships | 352 | | | 197 | | | 155
Trade names and other | 463 | | | 143 | | | 320
Total | $ | 6,357 | | | $ | 3,050 | | $ | 3,307


 | As of December 31, 2017
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingValue
Patents and developed technology | $ | 5,260 | | | $ | 3,040 | | $ | 2,220
Customer relationships | 359 | | | 263 | | | 96 
Trade names and other | 544 | | | 168 | | | 376
Total | $ | 6,163 | | | $ | 3,471 | | $ | 2,692

Patents and developed technology, customer relationships, and trade names and other have weighted-average remaining useful lives of 3.8 years, 1.4 years, and 4.6 years, respectively. 
Amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets was $892 million, $833 million, and $796 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively.
71


Alphabet Inc.

As of December 31, 2017, expected amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (in millions):

2018 | $ | 728 
2019 | 615 | 
2020 | 493 | 
2021 | 459 | 
2022 | 212 | 
Thereafter | 185 | 
 | $ | 2,692

Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies
Operating Leases
We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, facilities, land, and data centers throughout the world with lease periods expiring between 2018 and 2063. We are committed to pay a portion of the actual operating expenses under certain of these lease agreements. These operating expenses are not included in the table below. Certain of these arrangements have free or escalating rent payment provisions. We recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis.
As of December 31, 2017, future minimum payments under operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year, net of sublease income amounts, were as follows (in millions):

 | OperatingLeases(1) | | Sub-leaseIncome | | Net Operating Leases
2018 | $ | 1,175 | | | $ | 15 | | $ | 1,160
2019 | 1,133 | | | 13 | | | 1,120
2020 | 1,073 | | | 11 | | | 1,062
2021 | 975 | | | 7 | | | 968 
2022 | 831 | | | 3 | | | 828 
Thereafter | 3,616 | | | 1 | | | 3,615
Total minimum payments | $ | 8,803 | | | $ | 50 | | $ | 8,753


(1) | Includes future minimum payments for leases which have not yet commenced.

We have entered into certain non-cancelable lease agreements with lease periods expiring between 2021 and 2044 where we are the deemed owner for accounting purposes of new construction projects. Excluded from the table above are future minimum lease payments under such leases totaling approximately $2.1 billion, for which a $1.3 billion liability is included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2017.
Rent expense under operating leases was $734 million, $897 million, and $1.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively.
Purchase Obligations
As of December 31, 2017, we had $7.2 billion of other non-cancelable contractual obligations, primarily related to data center operations and build-outs, digital media content licensing, and purchases of inventory.
Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, to facilitate transactions in our services and products, we indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network Members, and lessors with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.
It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, we have 
72


Alphabet Inc.

a limited history of prior indemnification claims and the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 
As of December 31, 2017, we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible. 
Legal Matters
Antitrust Investigations
On November 30, 2010, the European Commission's (EC) Directorate General for Competition opened an investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against us. 
On April 15, 2015, the EC issued a Statement of Objections (SO) regarding the display and ranking of shopping search results and ads, to which we responded on August 27, 2015. On July 14, 2016, the EC issued a Supplementary SO regarding shopping search results and ads. On June 27, 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a €2.42 billion (approximately $2.74 billion as of June 27, 2017) fine. On September 11, 2017, we appealed the EC decision and on September 27, 2017, we implemented product changes to bring shopping ads into compliance with the EC's decision. We recognized a charge of approximately $2.74 billion for the fine in the second quarter of 2017. The fine is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees in lieu of a cash payment for the fine.
On April 20, 2016, the EC issued an SO regarding certain Android distribution practices. On July 14, 2016, the EC issued an SO regarding the syndication of AdSense for Search. We responded to the SOs and continue to respond to the EC's informational requests. There is significant uncertainty as to the outcomes of these investigations; however, adverse decisions could result in fines and directives to alter or terminate certain conduct. Given the nature of these cases, we are unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or ranges of loss, if any. We remain committed to working with the EC to resolve these matters.
The Comision Nacional de Defensa de la Competencia in Argentina, the Competition Commission of India (CCI), Brazil's Council for Economic Defense (CADE), and the Korean Fair Trade Commission have also opened investigations into certain of our business practices. In November 2016, we responded to the CCI Director General's report with interim findings of competition law infringements regarding search and ads. 
Patent and Intellectual Property Claims
We have had patent, copyright, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices, and require development of non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. In addition, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) has increasingly become an important forum to litigate intellectual property disputes because an ultimate loss for a company or its suppliers in an ITC action could result in a prohibition on importing infringing products into the U.S. Because the U.S. is an important market, a prohibition on importation could have an adverse effect on us, including preventing us from importing many important products into the U.S. or necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features of our products.
Furthermore, many of our agreements with our customers and partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Our customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business.
Oracle America, Inc. (Oracle) brought a copyright lawsuit against Google in the Northern District of California, alleging that Google's Android operating system infringes Oracle's copyrights related to certain Java application programming interfaces. After trial, final judgment was entered by the district court in favor of Google on June 8, 2016, and the court decided post-trial motions in favor of Google. Oracle has appealed. We believe this lawsuit is without merit and are defending ourselves vigorously. Given the nature of this case, we are unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, if any, arising from this matter.
73


Alphabet Inc.

Other
We are also regularly subject to claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition (such as the pending EC investigations described above), intellectual property, privacy, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. Such claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings could result in fines, civil or criminal penalties, or other adverse consequences.
Certain of our outstanding legal matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. We evaluate developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both likelihood of there being, and the estimated amount of, a loss related to such matters.
With respect to our outstanding legal matters, based on our current knowledge, we believe that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, the outcome of such legal matters is inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties.
We expense legal fees in the period in which they are incurred.
Non-Income Taxes
We are under audit by various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to non-income tax matters. The subject matter of non-income tax audits primarily arises from disputes on the tax treatment and tax rate applied to the sale of our products and services in these jurisdictions and the tax treatment of certain employee benefits. We accrue non-income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. We believe these matters are without merit and we are defending ourselves vigorously. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and judicial process in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome may be materially different from our expectations.
For information regarding income tax contingencies, see Note 14.
Note 11. Stockholders’ Equity
Convertible Preferred Stock
Our board of directors has authorized 100 million shares of convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, no shares were issued or outstanding.
Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock
Our board of directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock.
Share Repurchases
In October 2015, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $5.1 billion of its Class C capital stock, commencing in the fourth quarter of 2015. In January 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase an additional amount of approximately 514,000 shares. The repurchases were executed, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through the use of 10b5-1 plans. During 2016, we repurchased and subsequently retired 5.2 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $3.7 billion. We completed all authorized share repurchases under this repurchase program as of June 2016. 
In October 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $7.0 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated 
74


Alphabet Inc.

transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During 2017, we repurchased and subsequently retired 5.2 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $4.8 billion.
Note 12. Net Income Per Share
We compute net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares and the effect of potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist of restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. The computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A common stock assumes the conversion of Class B common stock, while the diluted net income per share of Class B common stock does not assume the conversion of those shares.
The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, of the holders of our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Furthermore, there are a number of safeguards built into our certificate of incorporation, as well as Delaware law, which preclude our board of directors from declaring or paying unequal per share dividends on our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments to our certificate of incorporation which would have the effect of adversely altering the rights, powers, or preferences of a given class of stock must be approved by the class of stock adversely affected by the proposed amendment. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that before any such amendment may be put to a stockholder vote, it must be approved by the unanimous consent of our board of directors. As a result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based on the contractual participation rights of the Class A and Class B common shares and Class C capital stock as if the earnings for the year had been distributed. As the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated on a proportionate basis. Furthermore, as we assume the conversion of Class B common stock in the computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A common stock, the undistributed earnings are equal to net income for that computation.
In the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, the net income per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock because the holders of each class are legally entitled to equal per share dividends or distributions in liquidation in accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Alphabet Inc.
In the year ended December 31, 2015, the Class C Adjustment Payment was allocated to the numerator for calculating net income per share of Class C capital stock from net income available to all stockholders and the remaining undistributed earnings were allocated on a pro rata basis to Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock based on the number of shares used in the per share computation for each class of stock. The weighted-average share impact of the Class C Adjustment Payment is included in the denominator of both basic and diluted net income per share computations for the year ended December 31, 2015. 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock (in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts):
75


Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 522 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | 6,695 | | | 1,196 | | | 7,935 
Total | $ | 6,695 | | | $ | 1,196 | | $ | 8,457
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 289,640 | | | 51,745 | | | 343,241
Basic net income per share | $ | 23.11 | | | $ | 23.11 | | $ | 24.63
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 522 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 6,695 | | | $ | 1,196 | | $ | 7,935
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 1,196 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (39 | ) | | (14 | ) | | 39 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 7,852 | | | $ | 1,182 | | $ | 7,974
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 289,640 | | | 51,745 | | | 343,241
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 51,745 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 2,395 | | | 0 | | | 5,909 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 343,780 | | | 51,745 | | | 349,150
Diluted net income per share | $ | 22.84 | | | $ | 22.84 | | $ | 24.34

76


Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 8,332 | | | $ | 1,384 | | | $ | 9,762
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 294,217 | | | 48,859 | | | 344,702 | 
Basic net income per share | $ | 28.32 | | | $ | 28.32 | | | $ | 28.32
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 8,332 | | | $ | 1,384 | | | $ | 9,762
Effect of dilutive securities in equity method investments and subsidiaries | (9 | ) | | (2 | ) | | (10 | )
Allocation of undistributed earnings for diluted computation | 8,323 | | | 1,382 | | | 9,752 | 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 1,382 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (94 | ) | | (21 | ) | | 94 | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 9,611 | | | $ | 1,361 | | | $ | 9,846
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 294,217 | | | 48,859 | | | 344,702 | 
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 48,859 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 2,055 | | | 0 | | | 8,873 | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 345,131 | | | 48,859 | | | 353,575 | 
Diluted net income per share | $ | 27.85 | | | $ | 27.85 | | | $ | 27.85

77


Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2017 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 5,438 | | | $ | 862 | | $ | 6,362
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 297,604 | | | 47,146 | | | 348,151
Basic net income per share | $ | 18.27 | | | $ | 18.27 | | $ | 18.27
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 5,438 | | | $ | 862 | | $ | 6,362
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 862 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (74 | ) | | (14 | ) | | 74 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 6,226 | | | $ | 848 | | $ | 6,436
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 297,604 | | | 47,146 | | | 348,151
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 47,146 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 1,192 | | | 0 | | | 9,491 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 345,942 | | | 47,146 | | | 357,642
Diluted net income per share | $ | 18.00 | | | $ | 18.00 | | $ | 18.00

Note 13. Compensation Plans
Stock Plans
Under our 2012 Stock Plan, RSUs or stock options may be granted. An RSU award is an agreement to issue shares of our publicly traded stock at the time the award vests. Incentive and non-qualified stock options, or rights to purchase common stock, are generally granted for a term of 10 years. RSUs granted to participants under the 2012 Stock Plan generally vest over four years contingent upon employment or service with us on the vesting date.
As of December 31, 2017, there were 38,505,768 shares of stock reserved for future issuance under our Stock Plan.
Stock-Based Compensation
For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, total stock-based compensation expense was $5.3 billion, $6.9 billion and $7.9 billion, including amounts associated with awards we expect to settle in Alphabet stock of $5.2 billion, $6.7 billion, and $7.7 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, we recognized tax benefits on total stock-based compensation expense, which are reflected in the provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income, of $1.1 billion, $1.5 billion, and $1.6 billion, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, tax benefit realized related to awards vested or exercised during the period was $1.5 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively. These amounts do not include the indirect effects of stock-based awards, which primarily relate to the research and development tax credit.
78


Alphabet Inc.

Stock-Based Award Activities
The following table summarizes the activities for our unvested RSUs for the year ended December 31, 2017:

 | Unvested Restricted Stock Units
 | Number of Shares | | Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Value
Unvested as of December 31, 2016 | 25,348,955 | | | $ | 624.92
Granted | 8,097,708 | | | $ | 845.06
Vested | (12,071,413 | ) | | $ | 623.94
Forfeited/canceled | (1,297,904 | ) | | $ | 659.61
Unvested as of December 31, 2017 | 20,077,346 | | | $ | 712.45

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2016, was $546.46 and $713.89, respectively. Total fair value of RSUs, as of their respective vesting dates, during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017 were $6.9 billion, $9.0 billion, and $11.3 billion, respectively.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $12.9 billion of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested employee RSUs. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.4 years. 
401(k) Plans
We have two 401(k) Savings Plans that qualify as deferred salary arrangements under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under these 401(k) Plans, matching contributions are based upon the amount of the employees’ contributions subject to certain limitations. We contributed approximately $309 million, $385 million, and $448 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively.
Note 14. Income Taxes
Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $8.3 billion, $12.0 billion, and $10.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, and income from foreign operations of $11.4 billion, $12.1 billion, and $16.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017. 
The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Current: | | | | | 
Federal and state | $ | 2,838 | | | $ | 3,826 | | | $ | 12,608
Foreign | 723 | | | 966 | | | 1,746 | 
Total | 3,561 | | | 4,792 | | | 14,354 | 
Deferred: | | | | | 
Federal and state | (241 | ) | | (70 | ) | | 220 | 
Foreign | (17 | ) | | (50 | ) | | (43 | )
Total | (258 | ) | | (120 | ) | | 177 | 
Provision for income taxes | $ | 3,303 | | | $ | 4,672 | | | $ | 14,531

The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017 and introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments, which are referred to as the global intangible low-taxed income tax and the base erosion tax, respectively. In addition, in 2017 we were subject to a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax. 
Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret the Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act will be completed in 2018.
79


Alphabet Inc.

Provisional amounts for the following income tax effects of the Tax Act have been recorded as of December 31, 2017 and are subject to change during 2018.
One-time transition tax
The Tax Act requires us to pay U.S. income taxes on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of foreign cash and certain other net current assets and 8% on the remaining earnings. We recorded a provisional amount for our one-time transitional tax liability and income tax expense of $10.2 billion. We have recorded provisional amounts based on estimates of the effects of the Tax Act as the analysis requires significant data from our foreign subsidiaries that is not regularly collected or analyzed.
Deferred tax effects
The Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% for years after 2017. Accordingly, we have remeasured our deferred taxes as of December 31, 2017 to reflect the reduced rate that will apply in future periods when these deferred taxes are settled or realized. We recognized a deferred tax benefit of $376 million to reflect the reduced U.S. tax rate and other effects of the Tax Act. Although the tax rate reduction is known, we have not collected the necessary data to complete our analysis of the effect of the Tax Act on the underlying deferred taxes and as such, the amounts recorded as of December 31, 2017 are provisional.
The net tax expense recognized in 2017 related to the Tax Act was $9.9 billion. As we complete our analysis of the Tax Act and incorporate additional guidance that may be issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may identify additional effects not reflected as of December 31, 2017.
The reconciliation of federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate is as follows:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
U.S. federal statutory tax rate | 35.0 | % | | 35.0 | % | 35.0 | % 
Foreign income taxed at different rates | (13.4 | )% | | (11.0 | )% | (14.2 | )%
Impact of the Tax Act | | | | | | | 
One-time transition tax | 0.0 | % | | 0.0 | % | 37.6 | % 
Deferred tax effects | 0.0 | % | | 0.0 | % | (1.4 | )%
Federal research credit | (2.1 | )% | | (2.0 | )% | (1.8 | )%
Stock-based compensation expense | 0.3 | % | | (3.4 | )% | (4.5 | )%
European Commission Fine | 0.0 | % | | 0.0 | % | 3.5 | % 
Other adjustments | (3.0 | )% | | 0.7 | % | (0.8 | )%
Effective tax rate | 16.8 | % | | 19.3 | % | 53.4 | % 

Our effective tax rate for each of the years presented was impacted by earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions with statutory tax rates lower than the federal statutory tax rate. Substantially all of the income from foreign operations was earned by an Irish subsidiary. Beginning in 2018, earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions will be subject to U.S. tax in accordance with the Tax Act.
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court, in an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, invalidated the portion of the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section 482 requiring related-party participants in a cost sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. The U.S. Tax Court issued the final decision on December 28, 2015. The IRS served a Notice of Appeal on February 22, 2016 and the case is being heard by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. At this time, the U.S. Treasury has not withdrawn the requirement to include stock-based compensation from its regulations. We have evaluated the opinion and continue to record a tax benefit related to reimbursement of cost share payments for the previously shared stock-based compensation costs. In accordance with the Tax Act, the Altera tax benefit was remeasured from 35% to 21%. We also remeasured the tax benefit expected to be realized upon settlement including the expected future new taxes enacted by the Tax Act due upon resolution of the matter. The tax liability recorded as of December 31, 2016 for the U.S. tax cost of the potential repatriation associated with the contingent foreign earnings was reversed due to the Tax Act introducing a territorial tax system and providing a 100% dividend received deduction on certain qualified dividends from foreign subsidiaries. We will continue to monitor developments related to the case and the potential impact on our consolidated financial statements.
80


Alphabet Inc.

Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. We recorded a provisional adjustment to our U.S. deferred income taxes as of December 31, 2017 to reflect the reduction in the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% resulting from the Tax Act. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2016 | | 2017
Deferred tax assets: | | | 
Stock-based compensation expense | $ | 574 | | | $ | 251
Accrued employee benefits | 939 | | | 285 | 
Accruals and reserves not currently deductible | 500 | | | 717 | 
Tax credits | 631 | | | 1,187 | 
Basis difference in investment of Arris | 1,327 | | | 849 | 
Prepaid cost sharing | 4,409 | | | 498 | 
Net Operating Losses | 305 | | | 320 | 
Other | 621 | | | 379 | 
Total deferred tax assets | 9,306 | | | 4,486 | 
Valuation allowance | (2,076 | ) | | (2,531 | )
Total deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance | 7,230 | | | 1,955 | 
Deferred tax liabilities: | | | 
Depreciation and amortization | (877 | ) | | (551 | )
Identified intangibles | (844 | ) | | (419 | )
Renewable energy investments | (788 | ) | | (531 | )
Foreign earnings | (4,409 | ) | | (68 | )
Other | (155 | ) | | (136 | )
Total deferred tax liabilities | (7,073 | ) | | (1,705 | )
Net deferred tax assets | $ | 157 | | | $ | 250

As of December 31, 2017, our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $931 million and $785 million, respectively. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2021 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2018. It is more likely than not that certain federal net operating loss carryforwards and our state net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized; therefore, we have recorded a valuation allowance against them. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various annual limitations under the tax laws of the different jurisdictions. Our foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were $327 million that will begin to expire in 2021.
As of December 31, 2017, our California research and development credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $1.8 billion that can be carried over indefinitely. We believe the state tax credit is not likely to be realized.
As of December 31, 2017, we maintained a valuation allowance with respect to certain of our deferred tax assets relating primarily to investment losses that are capital in nature, California deferred tax assets, certain federal net operating losses, and certain foreign net operating losses that we believe are not likely to be realized. We established a deferred tax asset for the book-to-tax basis difference in our investments in Arris shares received from the sale of the Motorola Home business to Arris in 2013. Since any future losses to be recognized upon the sale of Arris shares will be capital losses, a valuation allowance has been recorded against this deferred tax asset to the extent such deferred tax asset is not likely to be covered by capital gains generated as of December 31, 2017. We reassess the valuation allowance quarterly and if future evidence allows for a partial or full release of the valuation allowance, a tax benefit will be recorded accordingly.
81


Alphabet Inc.

Uncertain Tax Positions
The following table summarizes the activity related to our gross unrecognized tax benefits from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017 (in millions):

 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Beginning gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 3,294 | | | $ | 4,167 | | | $ | 5,393
Increases related to prior year tax positions | 224 | | | 899 | | | 685 | 
Decreases related to prior year tax positions | (176 | ) | | (157 | ) | | (257 | )
Decreases related to settlement with tax authorities | (27 | ) | | (196 | ) | | (1,875 | )
Increases related to current year tax positions | 852 | | | 680 | | | 750 | 
Ending gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 4,167 | | | $ | 5,393 | | | $ | 4,696

The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $4.2 billion, $5.4 billion, and $4.7 billion as of December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively, of which, $3.6 billion, $4.3 billion, and $3.0 billion if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. The decrease in gross unrecognized tax benefits in 2017 was primarily as a result of the resolution of a multi-year U.S. audit.
As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, we had accrued $493 million and $362 million in interest and penalties in provision for income taxes, respectively.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions, our two major tax jurisdictions are the U.S. federal and Ireland. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS completed its examination through our 2012 tax years; all issues have been concluded except for one which is currently under review in the U.S. Tax Court. The IRS is currently examining our 2013 through 2015 tax returns. We have also received tax assessments in multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. We continue to defend any and all such claims as presented.
Our 2016 tax year remains subject to examination by the IRS for U.S. federal tax purposes, and our 2011 through 2016 tax years remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits in various other jurisdictions that are not material to our financial statements.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
We believe that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management's expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Although the timing of resolution, settlement, closure of audits is not certain, it is reasonably possible that certain U.S. federal and non-U.S. tax audits may be concluded within the next 12 months, which could significantly increase or decrease the balance of our gross unrecognized tax benefits.
We estimate that our unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2017 could possibly decrease by approximately $500 million in the next 12 months. Positions that may be resolved include various U.S. and non-U.S. matters.
Note 15. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas
We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets.
Our reported segments are:

• | Google – Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Commerce, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware, Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure and some newer efforts like virtual reality are also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings.


• | Other Bets – Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Nest, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues

82


Alphabet Inc.

from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Fiber, sales of Nest products and services, and licensing and R&D services through Verily. 
Revenues, cost of revenues, and operating expenses are generally directly attributed to our segments. Inter-segment revenues are not presented separately, as these amounts are immaterial. Our Chief Operating Decision Maker does not evaluate operating segments using asset information.
Information about segments during the periods presented were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Revenues: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 74,544 | | | $ | 89,463 | | $ | 109,652
Other Bets | 445 | | | 809 | | | 1,203
Total revenues | $ | 74,989 | | | $ | 90,272 | | $ | 110,855


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Operating income (loss): | | | | | 
Google | $ | 23,319 | | | $ | 27,892 | | | $ | 32,908
Other Bets | (3,456 | ) | | (3,578 | ) | | (3,355 | )
Reconciling items(1) | (503 | ) | | (598 | ) | | (3,407 | )
Total income from operations | $ | 19,360 | | | $ | 23,716 | | | $ | 26,146


(1) | Reconciling items are primarily comprised of the European Commission fine for the year ended December 31, 2017, as well as corporate administrative costs and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments for all periods presented.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Capital expenditures: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 8,868 | | | $ | 9,417 | | $ | 12,605
Other Bets | 850 | | | 1,385 | | | 507
Reconciling items(2) | 232 | | | (590 | ) | | 72 
Total capital expenditures as presented on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | $ | 9,950 | | | $ | 10,212 | | $ | 13,184


(2) | Reconciling items are related to timing differences of payments as segment capital expenditures are on accrual basis while total capital expenditures shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow are on cash basis and other miscellaneous differences.

83


Alphabet Inc.

Stock-based compensation (SBC) and depreciation, amortization, and impairment are included in segment operating income (loss) as shown below (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016 | | 2017
Stock-based compensation: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 4,610 | | | $ | 5,926 | | $ | 7,038
Other Bets | 475 | | | 647 | | | 493
Reconciling items(3) | 118 | | | 130 | | | 148
Total stock-based compensation(4) | $ | 5,203 | | | $ | 6,703 | | $ | 7,679
Depreciation, amortization, and impairment: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 4,839 | | | $ | 5,800 | | $ | 6,520
Other Bets | 203 | | | 340 | | | 395
Reconciling items(5) | 21 | | | 4 | | | — 
Total depreciation, amortization, and impairment as presented on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | $ | 5,063 | | | $ | 6,144 | | $ | 6,915


(3) | Reconciling items represent corporate administrative costs that are not allocated to individual segments.


(4) | For purposes of segment reporting, SBC represents awards that we expect to settle in Alphabet stock.


(5) | Reconciling items are primarily related to corporate administrative costs and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments.

The following table presents our long-lived assets by geographic area (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2016 | | As ofDecember 31, 2017
Long-lived assets: | | | 
United States | $ | 47,383 | | | $ | 55,113
International | 14,706 | | | 17,874 | 
Total long-lived assets | $ | 62,089 | | | $ | 72,987

For revenues by geography, see Note 2.

ITEM 9. | CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A. | CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2017, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed at a reasonable assurance level and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
84


Alphabet Inc.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with our Audit Committee. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs.

ITEM 9B. | OTHER INFORMATION

None.
85


Alphabet Inc.

PART III

ITEM 10. | DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement for 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 (2018 Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the 2018 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. | EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the 2018 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. | SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in 2018 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. | CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Director Independence” in the 2018 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. | PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in the 2018 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
86


Alphabet Inc.

PART IV

ITEM 15. | EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)We have filed the following documents as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
1. Consolidated Financial Statements

Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 46
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 48
Consolidated Statements of Income | 49
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 50
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 51
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 52
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 53

2. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
The table below details the activity of the allowance for doubtful accounts and sales credits for the three years ended December 31, 2017 (in millions):

 | Balance atBeginning ofYear | | Additions | Usage | | Balance atEnd of Year
Year ended December 31, 2015 | $ | 225 | | $ | 579 | | $ | (508 | ) | $ | 296
Year ended December 31, 2016 | $ | 296 | | $ | 942 | | $ | (771 | ) | $ | 467
Year ended December 31, 2017 | $ | 467 | | $ | 1,131 | | $ | (924 | ) | $ | 674


Note: | Additions to the allowance for doubtful accounts are charged to expense. Additions to the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues.

All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or the required information is otherwise included.
3. Exhibits

ExhibitNumber | | Description | | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date
2.01 | | Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 2, 2015, by and among Google Inc., the Registrant and Maple Technologies Inc. | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
3.01 | | Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated October 2, 2015 | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
3.02 | | Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, dated October 2, 2015 | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.01 | | Specimen Class A Common Stock certificate | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.02 | | Specimen Class C Capital Stock certificate | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.03 | | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015
4.04 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Larry Page and certain of his affiliates | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015

87


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | Description | | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date
4.05 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Sergey Brin and certain of his affiliates | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.06 | | Transfer Restriction Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between the Registrant and Eric E. Schmidt and certain of its affiliates | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.07 | | Class C Undertaking, dated October 2, 2015, executed by the Registrant | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
4.08 | | Indenture, dated February 12, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee | | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209510) | February 12, 2016
4.09 | | Registrant Registration Rights Agreement dated December 14, 2015 | | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209518) | February 12, 2016
4.10 | | First Supplemental Indenture, dated April 27, 2016, between the Registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee | | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | April 27, 2016 
4.11 | | Form of the Registrant’s 3.625% Notes due 2021 (included in Exhibit 4.10) | | | 
4.12 | | Form of the Registrant’s 3.375% Notes due 2024 (included in Exhibit 4.10) | | | 
4.13 | | Form of the Registrant’s 1.998% Note due 2026 | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | August 9, 2016 
10.01 | | Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between the Registrant, its affiliates and its directors and officers | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.02 | u | Compensation Plan Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.03 | u | Director Arrangements Agreement, dated October 2, 2015, between Google Inc. and the Registrant | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.04 | u | Alphabet Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-37580) | October 2, 2015 
10.05 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan, as amended | | Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-50726) | June 7, 2011 
10.05.1 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Form of Google Stock Option Agreement | | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | March 30, 2005 
10.05.2 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Form of Google Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | | Annual Report on Form 10-K(File No. 000-50726) | March 30, 2005 
10.05.3 | u | Google Inc. 2004 Stock Plan - Amendment to Stock Option Agreements | | Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-142243) | April 20, 2007 
10.06 | u | Alphabet Inc. 2012 Stock Plan | | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | June 9, 2017 
10.06.1 | u | Alphabet Inc. 2012 Stock Plan - Form of Alphabet Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | | Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q(File No. 001-37580) | November 3, 2016 
10.07 | u | Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan | | Registration Statement on Form S-8(File No. 333-181661) | May 24, 2012 


Alphabet Inc.


ExhibitNumber | | Description | | Incorporated by reference herein 
 | Form | | Date
10.08 | u | AdMob, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan and UK Sub-Plan of the AdMob, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan | | Registration Statement on Form S-8(File No. 333-167411) | June 9, 2010 
10.09 | u | Apigee Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan | | Registration Statement on Form S-8(File No. 333-214573) | November 10, 2016
10.09.1 | u | Apigee Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan - Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement | | Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-214573) | November 10, 2016
12.01 | * | Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charge Ratios | | | 
14.01 | * | Code of Conduct of the Registrant as amended on September 21, 2017 | | | 
21.01 | * | Subsidiaries of the Registrant | | | 
23.01 | * | Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | | | 
24.01 | * | Power of Attorney (incorporated by reference to the signature page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) | | | 
31.01 | * | Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | | 
31.02 | * | Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | | 
32.01 | ‡ | Certifications of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 | | | 
99.01 | | Google blog post dated June 27, 2017 | | Current Report on Form 8-K(File No. 001-37580) | June 27, 2017 
101.INS | * | XBRL Instance Document | | | 
101.SCH | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document | | | 
101.CAL | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document | | | 
101.DEF | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document | | | 
101.LAB | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document | | | 
101.PRE | * | XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document | | | 

_________________

u | Indicates management compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement.
* | Filed herewith. 
‡ | Furnished herewith. 


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 16. | FORM 10-K SUMMARY

None.

Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 1. | BUSINESS

Overview
As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history -- inspiring us to do things like rethink the mobile device ecosystem with Android and map the world with Google Maps. As part of that, our founders also explained that you could expect us to make "smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses." From the start, the company has always strived to do more, and to do important and meaningful things with the resources we have.
Alphabet is a collection of businesses -- the largest of which, of course, is Google. It also includes businesses that are generally pretty far afield of our main Internet products such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Nest, Verily, Waymo, and X. We report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Our Alphabet structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence.
Access and technology for everyone
The Internet is one of the world’s most powerful equalizers, and we see it as our job to make it available to as many people as possible. At its core, Google has always been an information company. We believe that technology is a democratizing force, empowering people through information. We are helping people get online by tailoring hardware and software experiences that suit the needs of emerging markets, primarily through Android and Chrome. We're also making sure our core Google products are fast and useful, especially for users in areas where speed and connectivity are central concerns. Other Alphabet companies are also pursuing initiatives with similar goals.
Moonshots
Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. We continue to look toward the future and continue to invest for the long-term. We won't become complacent, relying solely on small tweaks. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in because they are the key to our long-term success.
The power of machine learning
Across the company, machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) are increasingly driving many of our latest innovations. Within Google, our investments in machine learning over a decade are what have enabled us to build Google products that get better over time, making them smarter and more useful -- it's what allows you to use your voice to search for information, to translate the web from one language to another, to see better YouTube recommendations, and to search for people and events that are important to you in Google Photos. Machine learning is also showing great promise in helping us tackle big issues, like dramatically improving the energy efficiency of our data centers. Across Other Bets, machine learning helps self-driving cars better detect and respond to others on the road, and can also aid clinicians in detecting diabetic retinopathy.
Google
Serving our users
We have always been a company committed to making big bets that have the potential to improve the lives of millions of people. As the majority of Alphabet’s big bets continue to reside within Google, an important benefit of the shift to Alphabet has been the tremendous focus that we’re able to have on Google’s many extraordinary opportunities. Our innovations in areas like search and advertising have made our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. We generate revenues primarily by delivering online advertising that consumers find relevant and that advertisers find cost-effective.
Google's core products such as Search, Android, Maps, Chrome, YouTube, Google Play, and Gmail each have over one billion monthly active users. But most important, we believe we are just beginning to scratch the surface. Our vision is to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation that uses our technical expertise to tackle big problems.
Google’s mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful has always been our North Star, and our products have come a long way since the company was founded nearly two decades 
3


Alphabet Inc.

ago. We used to show just ten blue links in our results, which you had to click through to find your answers. Now we are increasingly able to provide direct answers -- even if you're speaking your question using Voice Search -- which makes it quicker, easier and more natural to find what you're looking for. We also introduced the Google Assistant, which allows you to type or talk with Google in a natural conversational way to help you get things done. Over time, we have also added other services that let you access information quickly and easily -- like Google Maps, which helps you navigate to a store while showing you current traffic conditions, or Google Photos, which helps you store and organize all of your photos.
This drive to make information more accessible has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content, on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. And with the migration to mobile, people are consuming more digital content by watching more videos, playing more games, listening to more music, reading more books, and using more apps than ever before.
Fueling all of these great digital experiences are powerful platforms and hardware. That’s why we continue to invest in platforms like our Chrome browser, Android mobile operating system, Chrome operating system, and Daydream virtual reality platform, as well as a new family of great hardware devices like the Pixel phone and Google Home.
Google was a company built in the cloud and has been investing in infrastructure, data management, analytics, and AI from the very beginning. We’ve taken those long-term investments and offer many of the same cloud services to our enterprise customers. Because more and more of today’s great digital experiences are being built in the cloud, our enterprise cloud products help businesses of all sizes take advantage of the latest technology advances to operate more efficiently.
How we make money
The goal of our advertising business is to deliver relevant ads at just the right time and to give people useful commercial information, regardless of the device they’re using. We also provide advertisers with tools that help them better attribute and measure their advertising campaigns across screens. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses, and we offer a wide range of products across screens and devices. We generate revenues primarily by delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising.

• | Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Most of our performance advertisers pay us when a user engages in their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results.


For performance advertisers, AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising program, helps create simple text-based ads that appear on Google properties and the properties of Google Network Members. In addition, Google Network Members use our AdSense program to display relevant ads on their properties, generating revenues when site visitors view or click on the ads. We continue to invest in our advertising programs and make significant upgrades.

• | Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns.


We have built a world-class ad technology platform for brand advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. We also seek to improve the measurability of brand advertising so advertisers know when their campaigns are effective.
Furthermore, we have invested significantly in programmatic advertising to help advertisers reach users when and where it matters through automated ad buying, giving them access to top-tier inventory across screens and formats, as well as the real-time insights that advertisers need to make their buys count.
We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, ranging from removing hundreds of millions of bad ads from our systems every year to closely monitoring the sites and apps that show our ads and blacklisting them when necessary to ensure that our ads do not fund bad content.
Beyond our advertising business, we also generate revenues in emerging areas, such as digital content, cloud services, and hardware.
4


Alphabet Inc.

Other Bets
Throughout Alphabet, we are also using technology to try and solve big problems across many industries. Alphabet’s Other Bets are early-stage businesses, which come with considerable uncertainty, but they are already making important strides in their industries. Our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the medium to long term. For instance, Nest products, led by their learning thermostat, remain top sellers in their categories, and the team continues to successfully launch new products like the Nest Cam Outdoor. Also, life sciences and healthcare company Verily has forged several partnerships with industry leaders as it works to create new solutions in areas including diabetes and robotic surgery. Our self-driving car company, Waymo, is also making important progress and is currently testing cars in four cities. We continue to build out these businesses thoughtfully and systematically to capitalize on the opportunities ahead.
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from:

• | General purpose search engines and information services, such as Microsoft's Bing, Yahoo, Yandex, Baidu, Naver, and Seznam.


• | Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Amazon and eBay (e-commerce), Kayak (travel queries), LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google.


• | Social networks, such as Facebook and Twitter. Some users are increasingly relying on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines.


• | Other forms of advertising, such as television, radio, newspapers, magazines, and billboards. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline.


• | Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Facebook, Criteo, and AppNexus, that compete for advertisers with AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising program.


• | Providers of digital video services, such as Facebook, Netflix, Amazon, and Hulu.


• | Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer electronics products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms.


• | Providers of enterprise cloud services, including Amazon and Microsoft.


• | Digital assistant providers, such as Apple, Amazon, Facebook, and Microsoft.

Competing successfully in our advertising-related businesses depends heavily on our ability to deliver and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace so that we can attract and retain:

• | Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, primarily on the basis of the relevance and usefulness of our search results and the features, availability, and ease of use of our products and services.


• | Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels.


• | Content providers (Google Network Members, the parties who use our advertising programs to deliver relevant ads alongside their search results and content, as well as other content providers for whom we distribute or license content), primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.

Intellectual Property
We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties.
5


Alphabet Inc.

Culture and Employees
We take great pride in our culture. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex technical challenges. Transparency and open dialogue are central to how we work, and we like to ensure that company news reaches our employees first through internal channels.
Despite our rapid growth, we still cherish our roots as a startup and wherever possible empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their role or function within the company. We strive to hire great employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as those of our global users. We work to provide an environment where these talented people can have fulfilling careers addressing some of the biggest challenges in technology and society.
Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue investing in hiring talented employees and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees. As of December 31, 2016, we had 72,053 full-time employees: 27,169 in research and development, 20,902 in sales and marketing, 14,287 in operations, and 9,695 in general and administrative functions. Although we have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our U.S. employees are not represented by a labor union. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff.
Seasonality
Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality (e.g., commercial queries typically increase in the fourth quarter of each year).
Other Items
Climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time, and we’ve long been committed to improving our energy consumption. In 2012, we set a long term goal to reach 100% renewable energy for our operations, and we expect to achieve that goal in 2017.
We continue to invest in our existing products and services as well as developing new products and services through research and product development. We often release early-stage products. We then use data and user feedback to decide if and how to invest further in those products. Research and development expenses include the vast majority of engineering and technical headcount responsible for research and development of our existing and new products and services, as well as their associated costs. For more information please refer to the Consolidated Statements of Income included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
For information about segments and geographic areas, please refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
As part of the Alphabet reorganization, we expect to convert Google Inc. into a limited liability company.
Available Information
Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can get information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
6


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 1A. | RISK FACTORS

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.
Risks Related to Our Businesses and Industries
We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. 
Our businesses are rapidly evolving, intensely competitive, and subject to changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative products and technologies to the marketplace rapidly and, for Google, provide products and services that make our search results and ads relevant and useful for our users. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services, including products and services that may be outside of our historical core business. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our search technology and our existing products and services, and introduce new products and services that people can easily and effectively use.
We have many competitors in different industries, including general purpose search engines and information services; vertical search engines and e-commerce websites; social networks; other forms of advertising and online advertising platforms and networks; companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer electronic products; providers of enterprise cloud services and digital video services; and digital assistant providers. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Some large companies have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users, and they can use their experiences and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in research and development, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete aggressively for advertisers and websites. Emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the consumer need for products and services before us.
In addition, new products and services can sometimes present new and difficult technological and legal challenges, which may negatively impact our brands and demand for our products and services and adversely impact our revenues and operating results. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, and Google Network Members; are not appropriately timed with market opportunities; or are not effectively brought to market. As technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer user experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, and content providers, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected.
We generate substantially all of our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending by advertisers or a loss of partners could harm our business. 
We generated 88% of total revenues from advertising in 2016. Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content partners can terminate their contracts with us at any time. Those partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. If we do not provide superior value or deliver advertisements efficiently and competitively, we could see a decrease in revenue and other adverse impacts to our business. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions can also have a material negative impact on user activity and the demand for advertising and cause our advertisers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising, which could adversely affect our revenues and business.
Our ongoing investment in new businesses and new products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our current operations.
We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The creation of Alphabet as a new holding company in 2015 and the investments that we are making across various areas in Google and Other Bets are a reflection of our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that 
7


Alphabet Inc.

are useful to users. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including insufficient revenues from such investments to offset any new liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments, distraction of management from current operations, use of alternative investment or compensation structures, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and offerings that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
More people are using devices other than desktop computers to access the Internet and accessing new devices to make search queries. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our search technology, products, or operating systems developed for these devices, our business could be adversely affected.
The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than desktop computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, handheld computers such as laptops and tablets, video game consoles, digital assistants, and television set-top devices, is increasing dramatically. The functionality and user experience associated with some alternative devices may make the use of our products and services through such devices more difficult (or just different) and the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compelling to users, manufacturers, or distributors of alternative devices. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via “apps” tailored to particular devices or social media platforms, which could affect our search and advertising business over time. As new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of products and services across multiple platforms and devices. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users to our products and services, or if we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with alternative devices and platforms, we will fail to capture the opportunities available as consumers and advertisers continue to exist in a dynamic, multi-screen environment.
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future.
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including:

• | increasing competition,


• | changes in property mix, platform mix, device mix, and geographical mix,


• | the challenges in maintaining our growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels,


• | the evolution of the online advertising market, including the increasing variety of online platforms for advertising, and the other markets in which we participate, and


• | the rate of user adoption of our products, services, and technologies.

We believe our margins could experience downward pressure as a result of increasing competition and increased costs for many aspects of our business as well as the continuing shift to mobile, changes in device mix, and the contribution of new businesses to overall revenue. For instance, the margin on revenues we generate from our Google Network Members is significantly less than the margin on revenues we generate from advertising on Google properties. Consequently, our margins will experience downward pressure if a greater percentage of our revenues comes from ads placed on our Google Network Members' properties compared to revenues generated through ads placed on Google properties. Additionally, the margin we earn on revenues generated from our Google Network Members could decrease in the future if we pay an even larger percentage of advertising fees to our Google Network Members. 
Furthermore, in our multi-device world, we generate our advertising revenues increasingly from mobile and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these sources have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. We also expect our traffic acquisition costs (TAC) paid to our distribution partners to increase due to changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points.
Additionally, our margins could experience downward pressure because the margin on the sale of digital content, hardware products, and cloud-based services have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Further, our margins could be impacted adversely if we spend a proportionately larger amount to promote new products and services or distribute certain products or if we invest more heavily in our innovation efforts across the Company (such as our Other Bets businesses) than we have historically.
8


Alphabet Inc.

We are subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny that may negatively impact our business. Additionally, changes in policies governing a wide range of topics may adversely affect our business.
The growth of our company and our expansion into a variety of new fields involves a variety of new regulatory issues, and we have experienced increased regulatory scrutiny as we have grown. For instance, various regulatory agencies are reviewing aspects of our search and other businesses. We continue to cooperate with the European Commission and other regulatory authorities around the world in investigations they are conducting with respect to our business.
Legislators and regulators may make legal and regulatory changes, or interpret and apply existing laws or policies, in ways that make our products and services less useful to our users, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. Additionally, changes in social, political, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics may disrupt our business practices. These changes could negatively impact our business and results of operations in material ways.
A variety of new and existing laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business.
We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may also impact our business. For example, current and new patent laws such as U.S. patent laws and European patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. Similarly, changes to copyright laws being considered in Europe and elsewhere may increase costs or require companies, including us, to change or cease offering certain existing services. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future.
Claims have been, or may be, threatened and filed against us under both U.S. and foreign laws for defamation, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, patent, copyright and trademark infringement, product liability, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted by our users, our products and services, or content generated by our users. Furthermore, many of these laws do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by a number of our new businesses, products, services and technologies. In addition, the applicability and scope of these laws, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain. For example, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and abroad.
In addition, other laws that could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business include, among others:

• | We rely on statutory safe harbors, as set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the United States and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, against copyright liability for various linking, caching, and hosting activities. Any legislation or court rulings impacting these safe harbors may adversely impact us.


• | The General Data Protection Regulation, coming into effect in Europe in May of 2018, which creates a range of new compliance obligations, and increases financial penalties for noncompliance significantly.


• | Court decisions such as the ‘right to be forgotten’ ruling issued by the European court, which allows individuals to demand that Google remove search results about them in certain instances, may limit the content we can show to our users and impose significant operational burdens.


• | Various U.S. and international laws that restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors.


• | Data protection laws passed by many states and by certain countries outside the U.S. that require notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as California’s Information Practices Act.


• | Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country.

We face risks and costs overseas as our products and services are offered in international markets and may be subject to additional regulations. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes.
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. The manufacturing and sale of an expanded suite of hardware products further exposes us to the risk of product liability and other litigation as well as consumer protection concerns related to product defects, as well as health and safety, hazardous materials usage, and other environmental concerns. We may also be subject to claims, including product warranty claims, if users experience service disruptions, failures, or other issues. In addition, our businesses face intellectual property litigation, 
9


Alphabet Inc.

as further discussed later, that exposes us to the risk of exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell products and services.
Such claims, suits, and government investigations are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. These proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or product recalls or corrections, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content.
We host and provide a wide variety of services and products that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities both domestically and internationally. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services and products for activities of their users is still somewhat unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally. Claims have been threatened and have been brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright or trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our users. In addition, we are and have been and may again in the future be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates U.S. and non-U.S. law.
We also place advertisements which are displayed on third-party publishers and advertising networks properties, and we offer third-party products, services, or content. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, or content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting, or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, provide, or provide access to these products, services, or content. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner.
Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and services.
From time to time, concerns have been expressed about whether our products, services, or processes compromise the privacy of users and others. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results.
In addition, as nearly all of our products and services are web-based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers (including personal information) has been increasing. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our users’ data could seriously harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business, and impair our ability to attract and retain users. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to create world-class security protections that shield against theft and security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of web-based products and services we offer and operate in more countries, and as cyber attacks by third parties become more sophisticated and targeted.
Regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, including measures to ensure that our encryption of users’ data does not hinder law enforcement agencies’ access to that data. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.
Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of information from Europe to the U.S. For example, the European Union and U.S. Privacy Shield framework was designed to allow for legal certainty regarding transfers of data. However, the agreement itself faces a number of legal challenges 
10


Alphabet Inc.

and is subject to annual review. This has resulted in some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.
If our security measures are breached resulting in the improper use and disclosure of user data, or if our services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, users and customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure.
Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users’ and customers’ proprietary information, and theft and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, improper use and disclosure of such information, litigation, and potential liability. We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, including vulnerabilities of our vendors, or otherwise. Such breach or unauthorized access, increased government surveillance, or attempts by outside parties to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users and customers.
We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property or other claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.
Internet, technology, media, and other companies own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies may continue to seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. As we have grown, the intellectual property rights claims against us have increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies.
We have had patent, copyright, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell our products or services in the U.S. or elsewhere if our products or services or those of our customers or suppliers are found to infringe the intellectual property subject to the claims. Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices, and require development of non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business.
Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers from covered products. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities.
Regardless of the merits of the claims, intellectual property claims are often time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and cause significant diversion of management attention. To the extent such intellectual property infringement claims are successful, they may have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brand.
Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country 
11


Alphabet Inc.

in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable.
We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy could be compromised by outside parties, or by our employees, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word “Google” could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word “search.” If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word “Google” to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand.
Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results.
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations.
Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and divestitures, are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. Effecting these potential strategic transactions could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include:

• | Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic transactions.


• | Failure to successfully further develop the acquired business or technology.


• | Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company.


• | Integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions.


• | Transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms.


• | Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or other strategic transaction.


• | In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.


• | Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire.


• | Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, privacy issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities.


• | Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties.

Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.
Our acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or results. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which may adversely impact our financial condition or results. 
12


Alphabet Inc.

Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, Google Network Members, and other partners.
Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands of both Google and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs of our users. Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues and product/technical performance failures. Further, if we fail to maintain and enhance equity in the Google brand, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a meaningful role in people’s everyday lives.
We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that, if not properly managed, could adversely impact our financial results and prospects.
We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management. We may enter into long term contracts that commit us to significant terms and conditions of supply. We may be liable for material and product that is not consumed due to market acceptance, technological change, obsolescences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, the products we sell may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers' expectations or our products are found to be defective, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted.
We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products, and we have third-party arrangements for the design of some components and parts. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage third parties with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them.
We have in the past, and may experience in the future, supply shortages and price increases driven by raw material availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, natural disasters and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. We may experience shortages or other supply chain disruptions in the future that could negatively impact our operations. In addition, some of the components we use in our products are available only from a single source or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms or at all in the event of a supply chain disruption.
Additionally, because many of our supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and therefore less competitive and negatively impact our financial results. Further, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may impact our supply.
We also require our suppliers and business partners to comply with law and company policies regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. If any of them violates laws or implements practices regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. If any of them fails to procure necessary license rights to third-party intellectual property, legal action could ensue that could impact the saleability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to third parties.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC) and procedures pertaining to a manufacturer's efforts regarding the source of such minerals. SEC rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply DRC “conflict free” components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain DRC conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. Since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the minerals used in our products.
Web spam and content farms could decrease our search quality, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services.
“Web spam” refers to websites that attempt to violate a search engine's quality guidelines or that otherwise seek to rank higher in search results than a search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them.
13


Alphabet Inc.

Although English-language web spam in our search results has been significantly reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek ways to improve their rankings inappropriately. We continuously combat web spam, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We face challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including “content farms”, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes focused on low-quality websites. If our search results display an increasing number of web spam and content farms, this could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information or reduce user traffic to our websites. In addition, as we continue to take actions to improve our search quality and reduce low-quality content, this may in the short run reduce our AdSense revenues, since some of these websites are AdSense partners.
Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results.
The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and to potential disruptions if the operators of certain of these facilities have financial difficulties. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility we are using, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and may contain errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in our services or the failure of our systems.
Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 53% of our consolidated revenues in 2016. In certain international markets, we have limited operating experience and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed.
In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following:

• | Restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.


• | Import and export requirements, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers, and customs classifications that may prevent us from offering products or providing services to a particular market and may increase our operating costs.


• | Longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud.


• | Still developing foreign laws and legal systems.


• | Uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent.


• | Different employee/employer relationships, existence of workers' councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions.

Additionally, changes in international local political, economic, regulatory, tax, social, and labor conditions may adversely harm our business and compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include, among others, internal control and disclosure rules, privacy and data protection requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our international growth efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies.
14


Alphabet Inc.

Finally, since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Additionally, hedging programs are inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations.
Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly, year-to-date, and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may differ significantly from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed in this section in addition to the following factors may affect our operating results:

• | Our ability to continue to attract users to our websites and retain existing users on our websites.


• | Our ability to monetize (or generate revenues from) traffic on Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties across various devices.


• | Advertising revenue fluctuations caused by changes in property mix, platform mix, device mix, and geographical mix.


• | The amount of revenues and expenses generated and incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and our ability to manage the resulting risk through our foreign exchange risk management program.


• | The amount and timing of operating costs and expenses and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure.


• | Our focus on long-term goals over short-term results.


• | The results of our acquisitions, divestitures, and our investments in risky projects, including new businesses, products, services, and technologies.


• | Our ability to keep our websites operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions.


• | Our ability to generate significant revenues from new products and services in which we have invested considerable time and resources.

Because our businesses are changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. In addition, advertising spending has historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Also, user traffic tends to be seasonal. Our rapid growth has tended to mask the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results to fluctuate.
If we were to lose the services of Larry, Sergey, Eric, Sundar, or other key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy.
Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, Larry Page and Sergey Brin are critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries, and they, along with Sundar Pichai, the Chief Executive Officer of Google, play an important role in the development of our technology. Along with our Executive Chairman Eric E. Schmidt, they also play a key role in maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could seriously harm our business.
We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively.
Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees.
In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, particularly in light of our holding company structure, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success.
15


Alphabet Inc.

Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers.
Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures, including legal actions, that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. Such interference could result in a loss of existing users and advertisers, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users and advertisers, thereby harming our revenues and growth.
New and existing technologies could block ads online, which would harm our business.
Technologies have been developed that can block the display of ads online and that provide tools to users to opt out of seeing ads online. Most of our Google revenues are derived from fees paid to us in connection with the display of ads online. As a result, such technologies and tools could adversely affect our operating results.
We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investments.
Given the global nature of our business, we have investments both domestically and internationally. Credit ratings and market values of these investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates, or other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.
We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities.
Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. Due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. 
In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions on various tax-related assertions, including transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.
Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock
The trading price for our Class A common stock and non-voting Class C capital stock may continue to be volatile.
The trading price of our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. For example, from January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016, the closing price of our Class A common stock ranged from $681.14 per share to $835.74 per share, and the closing price of our Class C capital stock ranged from $668.26 to $813.11 per share.
In addition to the factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others:

• | Quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors.


• | Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments.


• | Recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates.

16


Alphabet Inc.


• | Announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the risk of which is enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance on earnings.


• | Announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations.


• | Commentary by industry and market professionals about our products, strategies, and other matters affecting our business and results, regardless of its accuracy.


• | The volume of shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock available for public sale.


• | Sales of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock by us or by our stockholders (including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other employees).


• | Short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock.


• | The perceived values of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock relative to one another.


• | Our stock repurchase program.

In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock regardless of our actual operating performance.
We cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully consummated or that our stock repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value, and stock repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our stock and could diminish our cash reserves.
In October 2016, our board of directors authorized our company to repurchase up to $7,019,340,976.83 of our Class C capital stock. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. Although our board of directors has authorized a stock repurchase program, the share repurchase program does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. The stock repurchase program could affect the price of our stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock.
The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters.
Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A common stock has one vote per share, and our Class C capital stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2016, Larry, Sergey, and Eric beneficially owned approximately 92.4% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which represented approximately 56.8% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Larry, Sergey, and Eric therefore have significant influence over management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C capital stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could prolong the duration of Larry and Sergey’s current relative ownership of our voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Together with Eric, they would also continue to be able to control any required stockholder vote with respect to certain change in control transactions involving Alphabet (including an acquisition of Alphabet by another company).
This concentrated control limits or severely restricts our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock could be adversely affected.
Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.
Provisions in Alphabet’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:

• | Our certificate of incorporation provides for a tri-class capital stock structure. As a result of this structure, Larry, Sergey, and Eric have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, or other change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. As noted above, the issuance of the Class C capital stock could have the effect of prolonging the influence of Larry, Sergey, and Eric.


• | Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors.

17


Alphabet Inc.


• | Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting.


• | Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates.


• | Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company.


• | Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.

As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.
Risks Related to Our Holding Company Reorganization
As a holding company, Alphabet is dependent on the operations and funds of its subsidiaries.
On October 2, 2015, we completed a reorganization pursuant to which Alphabet became a holding company with no business operations of its own. Alphabet’s only significant assets are the outstanding equity interests in Google and any other current or future subsidiaries of Alphabet. As a result, we rely on cash flows from subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including to service any debt obligations of Alphabet. 
We may not obtain the anticipated benefits of our reorganization into a holding company structure.
We believe that our holding company reorganization and the current operating structure increases management scale and allows us to focus on running our diverse businesses independently with the goal of maximizing each of the business’ potential. The benefits of this reorganization may not be obtained if circumstances prevent us from taking advantage of the strategic and business opportunities that we expect it may afford us. As a result, we may incur the costs of a holding company structure without realizing the benefits, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
Alphabet’s management is dedicating significant effort to the Alphabet operating structure. These efforts may divert management’s focus and resources from Alphabet’s business, corporate initiatives, or strategic opportunities, which could have an adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. Additionally, our subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to Alphabet, as the new holding company.

ITEM 1B. | UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

There are no unresolved staff comments at December 31, 2016.

ITEM 2. | PROPERTIES

Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We also own and lease office and building space in the surrounding areas near our headquarters, which in the aggregate (including our headquarters) represent approximately 7.86 million square feet of office/building space and approximately forty-five acres of developable land to accommodate anticipated future growth. In addition, we own and lease office/building space and research and development sites, around the world - primarily in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We operate and own data centers in the U.S., Europe, South America, and Asia pursuant to various lease agreements and co-location arrangements. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.

ITEM 3. | LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see Note 10 “Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Matters” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
18


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 4. | MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.
PART II

ITEM 5. | MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

As of October 2, 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act.
Price Range of Common Stock and Capital Stock
Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since August 19, 2004 and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low sales prices per share for our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

Fiscal Year 2016 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2016 | $ | 780.91 | | | $ | 701.02
June 30, 2016 | 787.68 | | | 681.14 | 
September 30, 2016 | 815.95 | | | 704.89 | 
December 31, 2016 | 835.74 | | | 753.22 | 


Fiscal Year 2015 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2015 | $ | 581.44 | | | $ | 497.06
June 30, 2015 | 573.66 | | | 532.74 | 
September 30, 2015 | 699.62 | | | 541.70 | 
December 31, 2015 | 793.96 | | | 642.00 | 

Our Class B common stock is neither listed nor traded.
Our Class C capital stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since April 3, 2014. The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low sales prices per share for our Class C capital stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

Fiscal Year 2016 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2016 | $ | 764.65 | | | $ | 678.11
June 30, 2016 | 766.61 | | | 668.26 | 
September 30, 2016 | 787.21 | | | 694.49 | 
December 31, 2016 | 813.11 | | | 736.08 | 


Fiscal Year 2015 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2015 | $ | 575.33 | | | $ | 492.55
June 30, 2015 | 565.06 | | | 520.51 | 
September 30, 2015 | 672.93 | | | 516.83 | 
December 31, 2015 | 776.60 | | | 611.29 | 

Holders of Record
As of December 31, 2016, there were approximately 2,178 and 2,183 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock, respectively, and the closing prices of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock were $792.45 and $771.82 per share, respectively, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of December 31, 2016, there were approximately 67 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock.
19


Alphabet Inc.

Dividend Policy
We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. We intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.
Stock Performance Graph
The following graph compares the 5-year cumulative total return to shareholders on Alphabet Inc.’s common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the RDG Internet Composite index, and the NASDAQ Composite index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in the company’s Class A common stock and in each index on December 31, 2011 and its relative performance is tracked through December 31, 2016. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2011 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2015 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.
This performance graph shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference into any filing of Alphabet under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
20


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 6. | SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period.

 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2012 | | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015 | 2016
 | (in millions, except per share amounts)
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: | | | | | | | | 
Revenues | $ | 46,039 | | | $ | 55,519 | | $ | 66,001 | $ | 74,989 | $ | 90,272
Income from operations | 13,834 | | | 15,403 | | | 16,496 | | 19,360 | 23,716 | 
Net income from continuing operations | 11,435 | | | 13,160 | | | 13,620 | | 16,348 | 19,478 | 
Net income (loss) from discontinued operations | (816 | ) | | (427 | ) | | 516 | | 0 | 0 | 
Net income | 10,619 | | | 12,733 | | | 14,136 | | 16,348 | 19,478 | 
Basic net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock: 
Continuing operations | $ | 17.47 | | | $ | 19.77 | | $ | 20.15 | $ | 23.11 | $ | 28.32 
Discontinued operations | (1.25 | ) | | (0.64 | ) | | 0.76 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 16.22 | | | $ | 19.13 | | $ | 20.91 | $ | 23.11 | $ | 28.32 
Basic net income (loss) per share of Class C capital stock: 
Continuing operations | $ | 17.47 | | | $ | 19.77 | | $ | 20.15 | $ | 24.63 | $ | 28.32 
Discontinued operations | (1.25 | ) | | (0.64 | ) | | 0.76 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 16.22 | | | $ | 19.13 | | $ | 20.91 | $ | 24.63 | $ | 28.32 
Diluted net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock:
Continuing operations | $ | 17.21 | | | $ | 19.42 | | $ | 19.82 | $ | 22.84 | $ | 27.85 
Discontinued operations | (1.23 | ) | | (0.63 | ) | | 0.75 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 15.98 | | | $ | 18.79 | | $ | 20.57 | $ | 22.84 | $ | 27.85 
Diluted net income (loss) per share of Class C capital stock: 
Continuing operations | $ | 17.21 | | | $ | 19.42 | | $ | 19.82 | $ | 24.34 | $ | 27.85 
Discontinued operations | (1.23 | ) | | (0.63 | ) | | 0.75 | | 0.00 | 0.00 | 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 15.98 | | | $ | 18.79 | | $ | 20.57 | $ | 24.34 | $ | 27.85 


 | As of December 31,
 | 2012 | | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015 | 2016
 | (in millions) 
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: | | | | | | | | 
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | $ | 48,088 | | | $ | 58,717 | | $ | 64,395 | $ | 73,066 | $ | 86,333
Total assets | 92,711 | | | 109,050 | | | 129,187 | | 147,461 | 167,497 | 
Total long-term liabilities | 6,662 | | | 6,165 | | | 8,548 | | 7,820 | 11,705 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 71,570 | | | 86,977 | | | 103,860 | | 120,331 | 139,036 | 

21


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 7. | MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Trends in Our Business
The following trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to impact our future results:
•Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves.
The continuing shift from an offline to online world has contributed to the growth of our business since inception, resulting in increasing revenues, and we expect that this online shift will continue to benefit our business.
•As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings which may impact our monetization.
As interactions between users and advertisers change, we continue to expand and evolve our product offerings to serve their changing needs. Over time, we expect our monetization trends to fluctuate. For example, we have seen an increase in YouTube engagement ads, which monetize at a lower rate than traditional desktop search ads. Additionally, we continue to see a shift to programmatic buying which presents opportunities for advertisers to connect with the right user, in the right moment, in the right context. Programmatic buying has a different monetization profile than traditional advertising buying on Google properties. These trends will continue to affect our revenues and margins in the future.
•Users are increasingly using multiple devices to access our products and services, and our advertising revenues are increasingly coming from mobile and other new formats.
Our users are accessing the Internet via multiple devices and want to feel connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. We seek to expand our products and services to stay in front of this shift in order to maintain and grow our business.
In this multi-device world, we generate our advertising revenues increasingly from mobile and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these sources have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. We also expect traffic acquisition costs (TAC) paid to our distribution partners to increase due to changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points. We expect these trends to continue to put pressure on our overall margins.
•As users in developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue to increase and movements in foreign exchange rates impact such revenues.
The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, and we continue to develop localized versions of our products and relevant advertising programs useful to our users in these markets. This has led to a trend of increased revenues from international markets over time and we expect that our results will continue to be impacted by our performance in these markets, particularly as low-cost mobile devices become more available.
Our international revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a foreign exchange risk management program designed to reduce our exposure to these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect on our revenues and earnings.
•The portion of our revenues that we derive from non-advertising revenues is increasing.
Non-advertising revenues have grown over time. We expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our Google offerings to our users through products and services like Google Cloud, Google Play, and hardware products. Across these initiatives, we currently derive non-advertising revenues primarily from hardware sales, sales of apps, in-app purchases and digital content products, and service and licensing fees; the margins on these non-advertising businesses vary significantly and may be lower than the margins on our advertising business. A number of our Other Bets initiatives are in their initial development stages, and as such, the sources of revenues from these businesses could change over time and the revenues could be volatile.
22


Alphabet Inc.

•As we continue to look for new ways to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in R&D and our capital expenditures will continue to fluctuate.
We continue to make significant research and development (R&D) investments in areas of strategic focus for Google, such as search, advertising, and machine learning, as well as in new products and services across both Google and Other Bets. The amount of our capital expenditures has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in the long term as we invest heavily in our systems, data centers, real estate and facilities, and information technology infrastructure.
In addition, acquisitions remain an important part of our strategy and use of capital, and we expect to continue to spend cash on acquisitions and other investments. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas.

• | Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them.

Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. Their energy and talent drive Alphabet and create our success. We expect to continue hiring talented employees around the globe and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees.
Executive Overview of Results
Here are our key financial results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 (consolidated unless otherwise noted):

• | Revenues of $90.3 billion and revenue growth of 20% year over year, constant currency revenue growth of 24% year over year.


• | Google segment revenues of $89.5 billion with revenue growth of 20% year over year and Other Bets revenues of $0.8 billion with revenue growth of 82% year over year.


• | Revenues from the United States, the United Kingdom, and Rest of the world were $42.8 billion, $7.8 billion, and $39.7 billion, respectively.


• | Cost of revenues was $35.1 billion, consisting of traffic acquisition costs of $16.8 billion and other cost of revenues of $18.3 billion. Our traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues was 21%.


• | Operating expenses (excluding cost of revenues) were $31.4 billion.


• | Income from operations was $23.7 billion.


• | Effective tax rate was 19%.


• | Net income was $19.5 billion with diluted net income per share of $27.85.


• | Operating cash flow was $36.0 billion.


• | Capital expenditures were $10.2 billion.


• | Headcount increased to 72,053 as of December 31, 2016.

Information about Segments
We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed below as Other Bets.
Our reported segments are described below:

• | Google – Google includes our main internet products such as Search, Ads, Commerce, Maps, YouTube, Google Cloud, Android, Chrome, and Google Play as well as our hardware initiatives. Our technical infrastructure and some newer efforts like virtual reality are also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising, sales of digital content, apps and cloud offerings, and sales of hardware products.


• | Other Bets – Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Nest, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Google Fiber, sales of Nest products and services, and licensing and R&D services through Verily.

Please refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the current period segment presentation.
23


Alphabet Inc.

Consolidated Revenues
The following table presents our consolidated revenues, by segment and revenue source, for the periods presented (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Google segment | | | | | 
Google properties | $ | 45,085 | | | $ | 52,357 | | $ | 63,785
Google Network Members' properties | 14,539 | | | 15,033 | | | 15,598
Google advertising revenues | 59,624 | | | 67,390 | | | 79,383
Google other revenues | 6,050 | | | 7,154 | | | 10,080
Google segment revenues | $ | 65,674 | | | $ | 74,544 | | $ | 89,463
Other Bets | | | | | 
Other Bets revenues | $ | 327 | | | $ | 445 | | $ | 809 
Consolidated revenues | $ | 66,001 | | | $ | 74,989 | | $ | 90,272

Google segment
The following table presents our Google segment revenues (in millions), and changes in our aggregate paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Google segment revenues | $ | 65,674 | | | $ | 74,544 | | | $ | 89,463
Google segment revenues as a percentage of consolidated revenues | 99.5 | % | | 99.4 | % | | 99.1 | %
Aggregate paid clicks change | | | 22 | % | | 32 | % 
Aggregate cost-per-click change | | | (11 | )% | | (11 | )% 

Use of Monetization Metrics
When assessing our advertising revenue performance, we present information regarding the percentage change in the number of "paid clicks" and "cost-per-click" for our Google properties and Google Network Members' properties. Management views these as important metrics for understanding our business. We periodically review, refine and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks and for identifying the revenues generated by click activity.
Paid clicks for our Google properties represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users related to searches on Google.com, clicks related to advertisements on other owned and operated properties including Gmail, Maps, and Google Play; and viewed YouTube engagement ads like TrueView (counted as an engagement when the user chooses not to skip the ad) and certain trial ad formats. Paid clicks for our Google Network Members' properties include clicks by end-users related to advertisements served on Google Network Members' properties participating in our AdSense for Search, AdSense for Content and AdMob businesses. In some cases, such as programmatic and reservation based advertising buying, we charge advertisers by impression; while growing, this represents a small part of our revenue base. 
Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenue divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.
Revenue growth and the change in revenue growth, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google properties and Google Network Members' properties and the correlation between these items, has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate because of various factors, including:

• | growth rates of our revenues from Google properties, including YouTube, compared to those of our revenues from Google Network Members' properties;


• | advertiser competition for keywords;


• | changes in foreign currency exchange rates;


• | seasonality;

24


Alphabet Inc.


• | the fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs;


• | changes in advertising quality or formats;


• | changes in device mix;


• | traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals and channels;


• | a shift in the proportion of non-click based revenue generated on Google properties and Google Network Members' properties, including an increase in programmatic and reservation based advertising buying; and


• | general economic conditions.

Our advertising revenue growth rate has fluctuated over time as a result of a number of factors, including increasing competition, query growth rates, challenges in maintaining our growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels, the evolution of the online advertising market, our investments in new business strategies, changes in our product mix, and shifts in the geographic mix of our revenues. We also expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to be affected by evolving user preferences, the acceptance by users of our products and services as they are delivered on diverse devices, our ability to create a seamless experience for both users and advertisers, and movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
Google properties
The following table presents our Google properties revenues (in millions), and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Google properties | $ | 45,085 | | | $ | 52,357 | | | $ | 63,785
Google properties as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 68.6 | % | | 70.2 | % | | 71.3 | %
Paid clicks change | | | 33 | % | | 40 | % 
Cost-per-click change | | | (15 | )% | | (13 | )% 

Google properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenue that is generated on:

• | Google search properties. This includes revenue from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.;


• | Other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Maps, and Google Play; and


• | YouTube, including but not limited to, YouTube TrueView and Google Preferred.

Our Google properties revenues increased $11,428 million from 2015 to 2016 and also increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. The growth was primarily driven by increases in mobile search most notably due to ongoing improvements in ad formats and delivery launched during 2016. We also experienced growth in YouTube revenue driven primarily by video advertising across TrueView with a growing contribution from ad buying on DoubleClick Bid Manager, as well as improvements in ad formats and delivery. The growth was partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs on Google properties increased from 2015 to 2016 due to growth in the adoption of YouTube engagement ads, improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, and continued global expansion of our products, advertisers and user base across all platforms, particularly mobile. The positive impact on our revenues from paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The decrease in cost-per-click was primarily driven by continued growth in YouTube engagement ads where cost-per-click remains lower than on our other advertising platforms, and also impacted by changes in device mix, property mix, product mix, geographic mix, and ongoing product changes, and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Our Google properties revenues increased $7,272 million from 2014 to 2015 and also increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. Our Google properties revenue growth was primarily driven by increases in mobile search due to ongoing improvements in ad formats, as well as growth in YouTube video advertising across TrueView and Google Preferred, partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs on Google properties increased from 2014 to 2015 due to an increase in aggregate traffic on Google owned properties, the adoption of advertising formats such as YouTube engagement ads, and continued global expansion of our products, advertisers, and user base across all platforms, particularly mobile. The positive impact on our revenues from paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease 
25


Alphabet Inc.

in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The decrease was primarily driven by continued growth in YouTube engagement ads where cost-per-click remains lower than on our other advertising platforms, as well as changes in property and device mix, product mix, geographic mix, and ongoing product changes, and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Google Network Members' properties
The following table presents our Google Network Members' properties revenues (in millions) and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Google Network Members' properties | $ | 14,539 | | | $ | 15,033 | | | $ | 15,598
Google Network Members' properties revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 22.1 | % | | 20.2 | % | | 17.4 | %
Paid clicks change | | | (7 | )% | | 3 | % 
Cost-per-click change | | | (3 | )% | | (13 | )% 

Google Network Members' properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network Member properties through:

• | AdSense (such as AdSense for Search, AdSense for Content, etc.);


• | AdMob; and


• | DoubleClick AdExchange.

Our Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $565 million from 2015 to 2016. The growth was primarily driven by strength in programmatic advertising buying as well as strength in AdMob, offset by a decline in our traditional AdSense business and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
The increase in paid clicks from 2015 to 2016 resulted from the growth in AdMob offset by declines in AdSense. The decrease in cost-per-click paid by our advertisers from 2015 to 2016 resulted from changes in the product mix of Google Network Members advertising revenues, ongoing product and policy changes, changes in property and device mix, geographic mix, and relative fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Our Google Network Members' properties revenues increased $494 million from 2014 to 2015. The increase was primarily driven by strength in programmatic advertising buying, offset by our continued AdSense advertising policy changes aimed at enriching the experience for users and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. The decrease in Google Network Members' properties revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues is due to relatively slower growth of Google Network Members' properties revenues compared to that of Google properties revenues as well as Google other revenues.
The decreases in both paid clicks and cost-per-click paid by our advertisers from 2014 to 2015 were primarily driven by ongoing product and policy changes designed to reduce lower quality inventory on AdSense for Search, changes in property and device mix, product mix, and geographic mix, and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Google other revenues
The following table presents our Google other revenues (in millions) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Google other revenues | $ | 6,050 | | | $ | 7,154 | | | $ | 10,080
Google other revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 9.3 | % | | 9.6 | % | | 11.3 | %

Google other revenues consist primarily of revenues and sales from:

• | Apps, in-app purchases, and digital content in the Google Play store;


• | Hardware;


• | Licensing-related revenue; and


• | Service fees received for our Google Cloud offerings.

26


Alphabet Inc.

Our Google other revenues increased $2,926 million from 2015 to 2016 and increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. These increases were primarily due to the growth in revenues from Google Play, primarily relating to in-app purchases (revenues which we recognize net of payout to developers), hardware sales, and Google Cloud offerings.
Our Google other revenues increased $1,104 million from 2014 to 2015 and increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. These increases were primarily due to the growth of our sales of digital content products in the Google Play store, primarily apps (revenues which we recognize net of payout to partners). In addition, there was an increase in revenues from service fees received for Google Cloud offerings. These increases were partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Other Bets
The following table presents our Other Bets revenues (in millions) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Other Bets revenues | $ | 327 | | | $ | 445 | | | $ | 809
Other Bets revenues as a percentage of consolidated revenues | 0.5 | % | | 0.6 | % | | 0.9 | %

Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues and sales from:

• | Internet and TV services;


• | Licensing and R&D services; and


• | Nest branded hardware.

Our Other Bets revenues increased $364 million from 2015 to 2016 and increased as a percentage of consolidated revenues. These increases were primarily driven by sales of Nest branded hardware and revenues from Fiber internet and TV services. There was also an increase in revenues from Verily licensing and R&D services from 2015 to 2016.
Our Other Bets revenues increased $118 million from 2014 to 2015 and remained relatively flat as a percentage of consolidated revenues. The increase was primarily due to increases in revenues from sales of Nest branded hardware and revenues from internet and TV services, partially offset by a decrease in licensing revenues. As Nest was acquired in February 2014, the increase in our Nest revenues is impacted by a partial year of revenues in 2014 as compared to a full year in 2015.
Due to the early stage of our Other Bets businesses and because their revenues aggregates a number of businesses operating in different industries, our Other Bets revenues may fluctuate in future periods. Additionally, our Other Bets revenues may fluctuate due to one-time items.
Consolidated Revenues by Geography
The following table presents our domestic and international revenues as a percentage of consolidated revenues, determined based on the billing addresses of our customers:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
United States | 45 | % | | 46 | % | 47 | %
United Kingdom | 10 | % | | 10 | % | 9 | %
Rest of the world | 45 | % | | 44 | % | 44 | %

For the amounts of revenues by geography, please refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Use of Constant Currency Revenues and Constant Currency Revenue Growth
The impact of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period to period comparisons. Our international revenues are favorably impacted as the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other foreign currencies, and unfavorably impacted as the U.S dollar strengthens relative to other foreign currencies. We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues and constant currency revenue growth for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to GAAP results helps improve the ability to understand our performance because they exclude the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.
27


Alphabet Inc.

Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and use it to determine the constant currency revenue growth on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging impacts realized in the current period.
Constant currency revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) is calculated by determining the increase in current period revenues over prior period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior period exchange rates and hedging benefits are excluded from revenues of both periods.
These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.
The following table presents our foreign exchange impact on United Kingdom revenues, Rest of the world revenues, and total consolidated revenues for the current period (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
United Kingdom revenues | $ | 6,483 | | | $ | 7,067 | | | $ | 7,787 | 
Exclude: Foreign exchange impact on current year revenues using prior period rates | N/A | | | N/A | | | $ | 826 | 
Exclude: Hedging (gains) recognized | $ | (3 | ) | | $ | (133 | ) | | $ | (297 | )
Constant currency United Kingdom revenues | $ | 6,480 | | | $ | 6,934 | | | $ | 8,316 | 
United Kingdom revenue growth rate | | | 9 | % | | 10 | % 
United Kingdom constant currency revenue growth rate | | | 15 | % | | 20 | % 
Rest of the world revenues | $ | 30,036 | | | $ | 33,112 | | | $ | 39,704 | 
Exclude: Foreign exchange impact on current year revenues using prior period rates | N/A | | | N/A | | | 447 | 
Exclude: Hedging (gains) recognized | (169 | ) | | (1,267 | ) | | (242 | ) 
Constant currency Rest of the world revenues | $ | 29,867 | | | $ | 31,845 | | | $ | 39,909 | 
Rest of the world revenue growth rate | | | | 10 | % | | 20 | % 
Rest of the world constant currency revenue growth rate | | | | 24 | % | | 25 | % 
United States revenues | $ | 29,482 | | | $ | 34,810 | | | $ | 42,781 | 
United States revenue growth rate | | | | 18 | % | | 23 | % 
Total consolidated revenues | $ | 66,001 | | | $ | 74,989 | | | $ | 90,272 | 
Constant currency total consolidated revenues | $ | 65,829 | | | $ | 73,589 | | | $ | 91,006 | 
Total consolidated revenue growth rate | | | | 14 | % | | 20 | % 
Constant currency total consolidated revenue growth rate | | | | 20 | % | | 24 | % 

In 2016 and in 2015, our revenues from the United Kingdom were unfavorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates over the prior year, primarily as the British pound weakened relative to the U.S. dollar. 
In 2016, our revenues from the Rest of the world (excluding the United Kingdom) were unfavorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily because the U.S. dollar strengthened relative to certain currencies including the Euro and Argentine peso, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Japanese yen.
In 2015, our revenues from the Rest of the world (excluding the United Kingdom) were unfavorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily because the U.S. dollar strengthened relative to the Euro, Brazilian real, Australian dollar, and Japanese yen.
28


Alphabet Inc.

Consolidated Costs and Expenses
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of traffic acquisition costs ​(TAC) which are ​paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
Additionally, other cost of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding traffic acquisition costs) includes the following:

• | The expenses associated with the operation of our data centers (including depreciation, labor, energy, bandwidth, and other equipment costs);


• | Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to certain content providers from whom we license their video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);


• | Credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions;


• | Stock-based compensation expense;


• | Inventory related costs for hardware we sell; and


• | Amortization of certain intangible assets.

The following tables present our cost of revenues, including traffic acquisition costs, for the periods presented (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Traffic acquisition costs | $ | 13,497 | | | $ | 14,343 | | | $ | 16,793
Other cost of revenues | 12,194 | | | 13,821 | | | 18,345 | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 25,691 | | | $ | 28,164 | | | $ | 35,138
Total cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues | 38.9 | % | | 37.6 | % | | 38.9 | %
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Traffic acquisition costs to distribution partners | $ | 3,633 | | | $ | 4,101 | | | $ | 5,894 
Traffic acquisition costs to distribution partners as a percentage of Google properties revenues (Google properties TAC rate) | 8.1 | % | | 7.8 | % | | 9.2 | %
Traffic acquisition costs to Google Network Members | $ | 9,864 | | | $ | 10,242 | | | $ | 10,899
Traffic acquisition costs to Google Network Members as a percentage of Google Network Members' properties revenues (Network Members TAC rate) | 67.8 | % | | 68.1 | % | | 69.9 | %
Traffic acquisition costs | $ | 13,497 | | | $ | 14,343 | | | $ | 16,793
Traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues (Aggregate TAC rate) | 22.6 | % | | 21.3 | % | | 21.2 | %

The cost of revenues that we incur related to revenues generated from ads placed on the properties of our Google Network Members are significantly higher than the costs of revenues we incur related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google properties because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network Members’ properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network Members.
Cost of revenues increased $6,974 million from 2015 to 2016 due to various factors including traffic acquisition costs, data center costs, content acquisition costs, and hardware costs. The increase in traffic acquisition costs of $2,450 million was due to increases in advertising revenues primarily from the growth of mobile search and programmatic ad buying which carry higher TAC. The increase in other cost of revenues of $4,524 million was primarily due to increases in (1) data centers costs including depreciation, labor, energy, bandwidth, and other equipment costs as a result of business growth, (2) content acquisition costs as a result of increased activities related to YouTube, (3) hardware costs associated with new hardware launches, and (4) stock-based compensation. 
29


Alphabet Inc.

The aggregate TAC rate remained relatively flat from 2015 to 2016 primarily as a result of a shift of mix from Google Network Members' properties revenue to Google properties revenue. Our aggregate TAC rate was also impacted by the increase in mobile and programmatic advertising buying, which generally carry overall higher TAC. 
The increase in Google properties TAC rate was primarily driven by a shift to mobile and more mobile searches are subject to TAC. The increase in Network Members' TAC rate was primarily driven by the shift in advertising buying from our traditional network business to programmatic advertising buying.
Cost of revenues increased $2,473 million from 2014 to 2015. The increase was primarily due to data center costs and an increase in content acquisition costs as a result of increased activities related to YouTube and digital content. The remaining increase was driven by increases in traffic acquisition costs of $846 million, resulting from more advertiser fees generated through our AdSense program driven primarily by an increase in advertising revenues, as well as more fees paid to our distribution partners for additional traffic directed to our websites. Additionally, there was an impairment charge of $378 million recognized in 2014 related to a patent licensing royalty asset acquired in connection with the Motorola acquisition that did not recur in 2015. 
The decrease in aggregate TAC rate from 2014 to 2015 was primarily a result of a shift of mix from Google Network Members' properties revenue to Google properties revenue.
We expect cost of revenues to increase in dollar amount and as a percentage of total revenues in 2017 and future periods based on a number of factors, including the following:

• | The relative revenue growth rates of Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties;


• | Traffic acquisition costs paid to our distribution partners, which are affected by changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms such as revenue share arrangements, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points;


• | Traffic acquisition costs paid to Google Network Members, which are affected by ongoing adoption of programmatic advertising buying and changes in partner agreement terms;


• | The growth rates of expenses associated with our data center operations, content acquisition costs, as well as our hardware inventory and related costs; and


• | Increased proportion of non-advertising revenues as part of our total revenues.

Research and Development
The following table presents our R&D expenses (in millions) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Research and development expenses | $ | 9,832 | | | $ | 12,282 | | | $ | 13,948
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues | 14.9 | % | | 16.3 | % | | 15.5 | %

R&D expenses consist primarily of:

• | Labor and facilities-related costs for employees responsible for R&D of our existing and new products and services;


• | Depreciation and equipment-related expenses; and


• | Stock-based compensation expense.

R&D expenses increased $1,666 million from 2015 to 2016. The increase was primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $667 million and an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $326 million both largely as a result of a 16% increase in R&D headcount partially offset by higher expenses resulting from project milestones in Other Bets in 2015. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of approximately $388 million and an increase in professional services of $267 million due to additional expenses incurred for consulting, outsourced services, and temporary services.
R&D expenses increased $2,450 million and increased as a percentage of revenues from 2014 to 2015. These increases were primarily due to an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $1,502 million and an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $487 million, both largely as a result of a 16% increase in R&D headcount. The increase in labor and facilities-related costs was also impacted by expenses resulting from project milestones in Other Bets established several years ago. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of approximately $248 million and an increase in professional services of $174 million due to additional expenses incurred for consulting and outsourced services. 
30


Alphabet Inc.

We expect that R&D expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in 2017 and future periods.
Sales and Marketing
The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses (in millions) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Sales and marketing expenses | $ | 8,131 | | | $ | 9,047 | | | $ | 10,485
Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues | 12.3 | % | | 12.1 | % | | 11.6 | %

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of:

• | Labor and facilities-related costs for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions;


• | Advertising and promotional expenditures related to our products and services; and


• | Stock-based compensation expense.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $1,438 million from 2015 to 2016. The increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $679 million largely due to increases in marketing and promotion related expenses for our hardware products. Additionally, there was an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $482 million and stock-based compensation expense of $179 million, both largely resulting from a 10% increase in sales and marketing headcount.
Sales and marketing expenses increased $916 million and remained relatively flat as a percentage of revenues from 2014 to 2015. The increase in dollar amount was primarily due to an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $329 million and an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $184 million, largely resulting from a 12% increase in sales and marketing headcount. In addition, there was an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $184 million and an increase in professional service fees of $158 million due to additional expenses incurred for consulting and outsourced services.
We expect that sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in 2017 and future periods.
General and Administrative
The following table presents our general and administrative expenses (in millions) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
General and administrative expenses | $ | 5,851 | | | $ | 6,136 | | | $ | 6,985
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues | 8.9 | % | | 8.2 | % | | 7.7 | %

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of:

• | Labor and facilities-related costs for employees in our facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations;


• | Depreciation and equipment-related expenses;


• | Professional services fees primarily related to outside legal, audit, information technology consulting, and outsourcing services;


• | Amortization of certain intangible assets; and


• | Stock-based compensation expense.

General and administrative expenses increased $849 million from 2015 to 2016. The increase was primarily due to increases in labor and facilities-related costs of $460 million and stock-based compensation expense of $421 million, both largely resulting from a 15% increase in general and administrative headcount, as well as increases in other miscellaneous expenses. These increases were offset by a decrease in professional service fees of $194 million due to lower legal-related costs.
General and administrative expenses increased $285 million and decreased as a percentage of revenues from 2014 to 2015. The increase in dollar amount was primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $136 million and an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $69 million, both largely resulting from a 15% increase in general and administrative headcount. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-
31


Alphabet Inc.

related expenses of $121 million and an increase of $80 million of miscellaneous general and administrative expenses. These factors were partially offset by a decrease in professional services fees and expenses of $128 million, primarily due to lower legal-related costs.
We expect general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in 2017 and future periods. 
Stock-Based Compensation
The following table presents stock-based compensation expense for awards we expect to settle in equity (in millions) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Stock-based compensation | $ | 4,175 | | | $ | 5,203 | | | $ | 6,703
Stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenues | 6.3 | % | | 6.9 | % | | 7.4 | %

Stock-based compensation related to awards we expected to settle in equity increased $1,500 million from 2015 to 2016 and $1,028 million from 2014 to 2015. These increases were primarily driven by headcount growth. 
We estimate stock-based compensation expense related to awards we expect to settle in equity to be approximately $6.3 billion in 2017 and $8.3 billion thereafter related to stock-based awards outstanding as of December 31, 2016. These estimates do not include expense related to stock-based awards granted after December 31, 2016. 
Consolidated Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table presents other income (expense), net, (in millions) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Other income (expense), net | $ | 763 | | | $ | 291 | | | $ | 434
Other income (expense), net, as a percentage of revenues | 1.1 | % | | 0.4 | % | | 0.5 | %

Other income (expense), net, increased $143 million from 2015 to 2016. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in interest income and decreased losses on non-marketable investments, partially offset by increased losses from our foreign currency transactions and impairments for certain assets. 
Other income (expense), net, decreased $472 million from 2014 to 2015. This decrease was primarily related to a writedown of securities received in conjunction with the sale of a business as well as reduced gains on non-marketable investments as compared to 2014. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in interest income as a result of increased cash and fixed income investments.
The costs of our foreign exchange hedging activities recognized in other income (expense), net, are primarily a function of the notional amount of the option and forward contracts and their related duration, the movement of foreign exchange rates relative to the contract prices, the volatility of foreign exchange rates and forward points. As we began using foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our forecasted revenues in the fourth quarter of 2016, we expect the hedging costs expensed in other income (expense), net, will decrease in 2017 and future periods as a result of less option premiums paid. 
Consolidated Provision for Income Taxes
The following table presents our provision for income taxes (in millions) and effective tax rate for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Provision for income taxes | $ | 3,639 | | | $ | 3,303 | | | $ | 4,672
Effective tax rate | 21.1 | % | | 16.8 | % | | 19.3 | %

Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate increased from 2015 to 2016, largely due to proportionately more earnings generated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates and discrete items in 2015 and 2016, partially offset by the stock-based compensation benefits recognized resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09 (ASU 2016-09).
32


Alphabet Inc.

Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate decreased from 2014 to 2015, largely due to a discrete benefit recognized in 2015 as a result of the resolution of a multi-year U.S. tax audit related to prior years and proportionately more earnings generated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates.
Our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items.
Quarterly Results of Operations
The following tables presenting our quarterly results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have prepared the unaudited information on the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements. Our operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future quarters or for a full year. 
The following table presents our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2016. This table includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that we consider necessary for a fair presentation of our consolidated financial position and operating results for the quarters presented. Both seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business. Commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends have caused, and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates.

 | Quarter Ended 
 | Mar 31,2015 | | Jun 30,2015 | | Sep 30,2015 | | Dec 31,2015 | Mar 31,2016 | | Jun 30,2016 | Sep 30,2016 | | Dec 31,2016
 | (In millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: 
Revenues | $ | 17,258 | | | $ | 17,727 | | $ | 18,675 | | $ | 21,329 | | | $ | 20,257 | | $ | 21,500 | $ | 22,451 | $ | 26,064
Costs and expenses: | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 6,356 | | | 6,583 | | | 7,037 | | 8,188 | | 7,648 | | | 8,130 | | | 8,699 | | 10,661
Research and development | 2,753 | | | 2,789 | | | 3,230 | | 3,510 | | 3,367 | | | 3,363 | | | 3,596 | | 3,622 
Sales and marketing | 2,065 | | | 2,080 | | | 2,223 | | 2,679 | | 2,387 | | | 2,415 | | | 2,565 | | 3,118 
General and administrative | 1,637 | | | 1,450 | | | 1,477 | | 1,572 | | 1,513 | | | 1,624 | | | 1,824 | | 2,024 
Total costs and expenses | 12,811 | | | 12,902 | | | 13,967 | | 15,949 | | 14,915 | | | 15,532 | | | 16,684 | | 19,425
Income from operations | 4,447 | | | 4,825 | | | 4,708 | | 5,380 | | 5,342 | | | 5,968 | | | 5,767 | | 6,639 
Other income (expense), net | 157 | | | 131 | | | 183 | | (180 | ) | (213 | ) | | 151 | | | 278 | | 218 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes | 4,604 | | | 4,956 | | | 4,891 | | 5,200 | | 5,129 | | | 6,119 | | | 6,045 | | 6,857 
Provision for income taxes | 1,089 | | | 1,025 | | | 912 | | 277 | | 922 | | | 1,242 | | | 984 | | 1,524 
Net income | $ | 3,515 | | | $ | 3,931 | | $ | 3,979 | | $ | 4,923 | | | $ | 4,207 | | $ | 4,877 | $ | 5,061 | $ | 5,333 
Less: Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 0 | | | 522 | | | 0 | | 0 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 
Net income available to all stockholders | $ | 3,515 | | | $ | 3,409 | | $ | 3,979 | | $ | 4,923 | | | $ | 4,207 | | $ | 4,877 | $ | 5,061 | $ | 5,333 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 5.16 | | | $ | 4.99 | | $ | 5.80 | | $ | 7.16 | | | $ | 6.12 | | $ | 7.11 | $ | 7.36 | $ | 7.73 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 5.16 | | | $ | 6.51 | | $ | 5.80 | | $ | 7.16 | | | $ | 6.12 | | $ | 7.11 | $ | 7.36 | $ | 7.73 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 5.10 | | | $ | 4.93 | | $ | 5.73 | | $ | 7.06 | | | $ | 6.02 | | $ | 7.00 | $ | 7.25 | $ | 7.56 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 5.10 | | | $ | 6.43 | | $ | 5.73 | | $ | 7.06 | | | $ | 6.02 | | $ | 7.00 | $ | 7.25 | $ | 7.56 

33


Alphabet Inc.

Capital Resources and Liquidity
As of December 31, 2016, we had $86.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market and other funds, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments issued by foreign governments, debt instruments issued by municipalities in the U.S., corporate debt securities, agency mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. From time to time, we may hold marketable equity securities obtained through acquisitions or strategic investments in private companies that subsequently go public.
As of December 31, 2016, $52.2 billion of the $86.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds were needed for our operations in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations.
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from our operations. We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2016. In conjunction with this program, we have a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility expiring in February 2021. The interest rate for the credit facility is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. As of December 31, 2016, no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. We believe that our sources of funding will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements including capital expenditures, working capital requirements, potential acquisitions and other liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months. 
As of December 31, 2016, we have unsecured senior notes outstanding due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 with a total carrying value of $3.9 billion and a total estimated fair value of $3.9 billion. 
In August 2013, we entered into a capital lease obligation on certain property expiring in 2028. In September 2016, we exercised our option to purchase the property for approximately $220 million.
In October 2015, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $5,099,019,513.59 of its Class C capital stock, commencing in the fourth quarter of 2015. In January 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase an additional amount of approximately 514 thousand shares. We completed all authorized share repurchases under this repurchase program. 
In October 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $7,019,340,976.83 of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are expected to be executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. No shares were repurchased in 2016 under this program. 
In January 2017, Temasek, a Singapore-based investment company, signed a binding commitment to purchase a non-controlling interest in Verily for an aggregate of $800 million in cash. We closed the first tranche of the investment in February 2017 and anticipate closing the second and final tranche upon completion of certain terms in the second half of 2017.
The following table presents our cash flows (in millions) for the periods presented.

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 (1) | | 2015 (1) | | 2016
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 23,024 | | | $ | 26,572 | | | $ | 36,036
Net cash used in investing activities | (21,055 | ) | | (23,711 | ) | | (31,165 | )
Net cash used in financing activities | (2,087 | ) | | (4,225 | ) | | (8,332 | )


(1) | Prior period amounts have been adjusted for the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-09. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Our largest source of cash provided by our operations are advertising revenues generated by Google properties and Google Network Members' properties. Additionally, we generate cash through sales of apps, in-app purchases and digital content, hardware products, licensing arrangements, and service fees received for Google Cloud offerings.
Our primary uses of cash from our operating activities include payments to our Google Network Members and distribution partners, and payments for content acquisition costs. In addition, uses of cash from operating activities include compensation and related costs, hardware costs, other general corporate expenditures, and income taxes.
34


Alphabet Inc.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2015 to 2016 primarily due to increases in cash received from advertising revenues and Google other revenues, offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses. Additionally, the timing of tax payments and refunds had a favorable impact to our cash flows from operations for 2016 compared to 2015.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2014 to 2015 primarily due to increased net income adjusted for depreciation and stock-based compensation expense, and loss on sales of marketable and non-marketable securities. This was partially offset by a net decrease in cash from changes in working capital.
Cash Used in Investing Activities
Cash provided by or used in investing activities primarily consists of purchases of property and equipment, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities in our investment portfolio, investments in reverse repurchase agreements and the cash collateral received or returned from our securities lending program, as well as acquisitions and divestitures of businesses and intangible assets.
Net cash used in investing activities increased from 2015 to 2016 primarily due to increases in purchases of marketable securities, increases in cash collateral paid related to securities lending and increases in spend related to acquisitions partially offset by increases in maturities and sales of marketable securities and decreases in purchases of non-marketable investments.
Net cash used in investing activities increased from 2014 to 2015 primarily due to net increases in purchases of marketable securities, activities related to securities lending and purchases of non-marketable investments. This increase was partially offset by lower spend related to acquisitions, lower investments in reverse repurchase agreements, and a decrease in capital expenditures related to our production equipment, data centers, and real estate purchases.
Cash Used in Financing Activities
Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of net proceeds or payments from issuance or repayments of debt, repurchases of capital stock, and net proceeds or payments from stock-based award activities.
Net cash used in financing activities increased from 2015 to 2016 primarily driven by decreases in proceeds from issuance of debt, and increases in the repurchases of capital stock and net payments related to stock-based award activities, partially offset by a decrease in debt repayments. 
Net cash used in financing activities increased from 2014 to 2015 primarily driven by the repurchases of capital stock and an increase in net payments related to stock-based award activities.
Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2016
The following summarizes our contractual obligations, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations, as of December 31, 2016 (in millions):

 | Payments Due By Period
 | Total | | Less than1 year | | 1-3years | | 3-5years | More than5 years
Operating lease obligations, net of sublease income amounts(1) | $ | 7,937 | | | $ | 828 | | $ | 1,801 | $ | 1,615 | $ | 3,693
Purchase obligations(2) | 2,494 | | | 1,907 | | | 274 | | 99 | 214 | 
Long-term debt obligations(3) | 4,816 | | | 110 | | | 220 | | 1,202 | 3,284 | 
Other long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet(4) | 2,093 | | | 261 | | | 601 | | 525 | 706 | 
Total contractual obligations | $ | 17,340 | | | $ | 3,106 | | $ | 2,896 | $ | 3,441 | $ | 7,897


(1) | For further information, refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


(2) | Purchase obligations represent non-cancelable contractual obligations primarily related to data center operations and facility build-outs, video and other content licensing revenue sharing arrangements, as well as purchases of inventory.


(3) | For further information, refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


(4) | Other long-term liabilities represent cash obligations recorded on our consolidated balance sheets, including the short-term portion of these long-term liabilities and consist primarily of payments owed in connection with certain commercial agreements, investments, and asset retirement obligations. In addition to the amounts above, we had long-term tax payable of $4.7 billion as of December 31, 2016 primarily related to uncertain tax positions. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable

35


Alphabet Inc.

estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. As a result, this amount is not included in the above table.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of December 31, 2016, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations will be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors.
Please see Note 1 of Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the summary of significant accounting policies.
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes.
Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Loss Contingencies
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, indirect taxes, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both likelihood of there being and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding contingencies.
36


Alphabet Inc.

Business Combinations
We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets.
Critical estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from customer relationships and acquired patents and developed technology and discount rates. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates.
Other estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as more fully discussed in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to reporting units expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairment tests require judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. 
Long-lived Assets
Long-lived assets, including property and equipment, long-term prepayments, and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows independent of other assets. An impairment loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows generated from the assets are less than their carrying amount. Measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value.
Impairment of Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities
We periodically review our marketable and non-marketable securities for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. Factors we consider to make such determination include the duration and severity of the impairment, the reason for the decline in value and the potential recovery period and our intent to sell. For marketable debt securities, we also consider whether (1) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, and (2) the amortized cost basis cannot be recovered as a result of credit losses. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net.

ITEM 7A. | QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We transact business globally in multiple currencies. Our international revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. We are a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weakening of the U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currency. As of December 31, 2016, our most significant currency exposures are the British pound, Euro, and Japanese yen.
In the fourth quarter of 2016, we began using foreign exchange forward contracts in addition to the existing foreign exchange option contracts, to protect our forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency options and forwards reduce the foreign currency losses related to our earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency forwards offset the foreign currency gains related to our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. We record spot-to-spot foreign currency exchange rate changes of these 
37


Alphabet Inc.

contracts as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and subsequently reclassify them into revenues to offset the hedged exposures as they occur. We exclude the change in the time value and forward points of these contracts from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. These excluded components are recognized in other income (expense), net.
We considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 10% could be experienced in the near term. If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10% as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, the amount recorded in AOCI reflecting spot-to-spot foreign currency rate changes related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been approximately $221 million and $920 million lower as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, and the total amount of expense recorded as other income (expense), net, would have been approximately $203 million higher in the year ended December 31, 2015 and $14 million lower in the year ended December 31, 2016. If the U.S. dollar strengthened by 10% as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, the amount recorded in accumulated AOCI related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been approximately $1.5 billion and $1.0 billion higher as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, and the total amount of expense recorded as other income (expense), net, would have been approximately $313 million and $13 million higher in the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016. In both scenarios, the change in the value recorded in in AOCI would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in forecasted hedged revenues when recognized.
In addition, we use foreign exchange forward contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the subsidiary. These forward contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on the assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which are offset by the gains and losses on the forward contracts.
We considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. These reasonably possible adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% were applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currencies at the balance sheet dates to compute the adverse impact these changes would have had on our income before income taxes in the near term. These changes would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before income taxes of approximately $61 million and $40 million as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016. The adverse impact as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 is after consideration of the offsetting effect of approximately $539 million and $554 million from foreign exchange contracts in place for the months of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016. 
Interest Rate Risk
Our investment strategy is to achieve a return that will allow us to preserve capital and maintain liquidity requirements. We invest primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, agency mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. By policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, unrealized losses on our marketable debt securities were primarily due to temporary interest rate fluctuations as a result of higher market interest rates compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. We account for both fixed and variable rate securities at fair value with changes on gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold. We use interest rate derivative contracts to hedge gains and losses on our securities. These derivative contracts are accounted for as hedges at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income (expense), net. 
We considered the historical volatility of short-term interest rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that an adverse change of 100 basis points could be experienced in the near term. A hypothetical 1.00% (100 basis points) increase in interest rates would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our marketable securities of approximately $1.3 billion and $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016.
38


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 8. | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Alphabet Inc.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 | Page
Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 40 
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 42 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 43 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 44 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 45 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 46 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 47 

The supplementary financial information required by this Item 8 is included in Item 7 under the caption “Quarterly Results of Operations.”
39


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Alphabet Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet Inc. as of December 31, 2015 and 2016, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)2. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Alphabet Inc. at December 31, 2015 and 2016, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Notes 1 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for share-based payments to employees as a result of the adoption of the amendments to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification resulting from Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting," effective January 1, 2016.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Alphabet Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 2, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 2, 2017 

40


Alphabet Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Alphabet Inc.
We have audited Alphabet Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). Alphabet Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, Alphabet Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the 2016 consolidated financial statements of Alphabet Inc. and our report dated February 2, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 2, 2017 

41


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except share and par value amounts which are reflected in thousands,
and par value per share amounts)

 | As of December 31, 2015 | | As ofDecember 31, 2016
Assets | | | 
Current assets: | | | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 16,549 | | | $ | 12,918 
Marketable securities | 56,517 | | | 73,415 | 
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (including securities loaned of $4,531 and $0) | 73,066 | | | 86,333 | 
Accounts receivable, net of allowance of $296 and $467 | 11,556 | | | 14,137 | 
Receivable under reverse repurchase agreements | 450 | | | 0 | 
Income taxes receivable, net | 1,903 | | | 95 | 
Inventory | 491 | | | 268 | 
Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets | 2,648 | | | 4,575 | 
Total current assets | 90,114 | | | 105,408 | 
Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, non-current | 3,181 | | | 1,819 | 
Non-marketable investments | 5,183 | | | 5,878 | 
Deferred income taxes | 251 | | | 383 | 
Property and equipment, net | 29,016 | | | 34,234 | 
Intangible assets, net | 3,847 | | | 3,307 | 
Goodwill | 15,869 | | | 16,468 | 
Total assets | $ | 147,461 | | | $ | 167,497
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity | | | 
Current liabilities: | | | 
Accounts payable | $ | 1,931 | | | $ | 2,041 
Short-term debt | 3,225 | | | 0 | 
Accrued compensation and benefits | 3,539 | | | 3,976 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 4,768 | | | 6,144 | 
Accrued revenue share | 2,329 | | | 2,942 | 
Securities lending payable | 2,428 | | | 0 | 
Deferred revenue | 788 | | | 1,099 | 
Income taxes payable, net | 302 | | | 554 | 
Total current liabilities | 19,310 | | | 16,756 | 
Long-term debt | 1,995 | | | 3,935 | 
Deferred revenue, non-current | 151 | | | 202 | 
Income taxes payable, non-current | 3,663 | | | 4,677 | 
Deferred income taxes | 189 | | | 226 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 1,822 | | | 2,665 | 
Total liabilities | 27,130 | | | 28,461 | 
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 10) | | | | 
Stockholders’ equity: | | | 
Convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share, 100,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding | 0 | | | 0 | 
Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.001 par value per share: 15,000,000 shares authorized (Class A 9,000,000, Class B 3,000,000, Class C 3,000,000); 687,348 (Class A 292,297, Class B 50,295, Class C 344,756) and 691,293 (Class A 296,992, Class B 47,437, Class C 346,864) shares issued and outstanding | 32,982 | | | 36,307 | 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss | (1,874 | ) | | (2,402 | )
Retained earnings | 89,223 | | | 105,131 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 120,331 | | | 139,036 | 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity | $ | 147,461 | | | $ | 167,497

See accompanying notes.
42


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Revenues | $ | 66,001 | | | $ | 74,989 | | $ | 90,272
Costs and expenses: | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 25,691 | | | 28,164 | | | 35,138
Research and development | 9,832 | | | 12,282 | | | 13,948
Sales and marketing | 8,131 | | | 9,047 | | | 10,485
General and administrative | 5,851 | | | 6,136 | | | 6,985 
Total costs and expenses | 49,505 | | | 55,629 | | | 66,556
Income from operations | 16,496 | | | 19,360 | | | 23,716
Other income (expense), net | 763 | | | 291 | | | 434 
Income before income taxes | 17,259 | | | 19,651 | | | 24,150
Provision for income taxes | 3,639 | | | 3,303 | | | 4,672 
Net income from continuing operations | $ | 13,620 | | | $ | 16,348 | | $ | 19,478
Net income from discontinued operations | 516 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Net income | $ | 14,136 | | | $ | 16,348 | | $ | 19,478
Less: Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 0 | | | 522 | | | 0 
Net income available to all stockholders | $ | 14,136 | | | $ | 15,826 | | $ | 19,478
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 20.15 | | | $ | 23.11 | | $ | 28.32 
Discontinued operations | 0.76 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 20.91 | | | $ | 23.11 | | $ | 28.32 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 20.15 | | | $ | 24.63 | | $ | 28.32 
Discontinued operations | 0.76 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 20.91 | | | $ | 24.63 | | $ | 28.32 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.82 | | | $ | 22.84 | | $ | 27.85 
Discontinued operations | 0.75 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 20.57 | | | $ | 22.84 | | $ | 27.85 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.82 | | | $ | 24.34 | | $ | 27.85 
Discontinued operations | 0.75 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 20.57 | | | $ | 24.34 | | $ | 27.85 

See accompanying notes.
43


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Net income | $ | 14,136 | | | $ | 16,348 | | | $ | 19,478
Other comprehensive (loss) income: | | | | | 
Change in foreign currency translation adjustment | (996 | ) | | (1,067 | ) | | (599 | )
Available-for-sale investments: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 505 | | | (715 | ) | | (314 | )
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (134 | ) | | 208 | | | 221 | 
Net change (net of tax effect of $60, $29, and $0) | 371 | | | (507 | ) | | (93 | )
Cash flow hedges: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | 651 | | | 676 | | | 515 | 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (124 | ) | | (1,003 | ) | | (351 | )
Net change (net of tax effect of $196, $115, and $64) | 527 | | | (327 | ) | | 164 | 
Other comprehensive (loss) income | (98 | ) | | (1,901 | ) | | (528 | )
Comprehensive income | $ | 14,038 | | | $ | 14,447 | | | $ | 18,950

See accompanying notes.
44


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands)

 | Class A and Class BCommon Stock, Class C Capital Stock andAdditional Paid-In Capital | | AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss) | | RetainedEarnings | | TotalStockholders’Equity
 | Shares | | Amount | 
Balance as of December 31, 2013 | 671,664 | | | $ | 25,922 | | | $ | 125 | | | $ | 60,930 | | $ | 86,977 
Common and capital stock issued | 8,508 | | | 465 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 465 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | | | 4,279 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 4,279 | 
Stock-based compensation tax benefits | | | 625 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 625 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | | | (2,524 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | | | (2,524 | ) 
Net income | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 14,136 | | | 14,136 | 
Other comprehensive loss | | | 0 | | | (98 | ) | | 0 | | | (98 | ) 
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | 680,172 | | | 28,767 | | | 27 | | | 75,066 | | | 103,860 | 
Common and capital stock issued | 8,714 | | | 664 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 664 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | | | 5,151 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 5,151 | 
Stock-based compensation tax benefits | | | 815 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 815 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | | | (2,779 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | | | (2,779 | ) 
Repurchases of capital stock | (2,391 | ) | | (111 | ) | | 0 | | | (1,669 | ) | | (1,780 | )
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 853 | | | 475 | | | 0 | | | (522 | ) | | (47 | )
Net income | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 16,348 | | | 16,348 | 
Other comprehensive loss | | | 0 | | | (1,901 | ) | | 0 | | | (1,901 | ) 
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | 687,348 | | | 32,982 | | | (1,874 | ) | | 89,223 | | | 120,331 | 
Cumulative effect of accounting change | 0 | | | 180 | | | 0 | | | (133 | ) | | 47 | 
Common and capital stock issued | 9,106 | | | 298 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 298 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | | | 6,700 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 6,700 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | | | (3,597 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | | | (3,597 | ) 
Repurchases of capital stock | (5,161 | ) | | (256 | ) | | 0 | | | (3,437 | ) | | (3,693 | )
Net income | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 19,478 | | | 19,478 | 
Other comprehensive loss | | | 0 | | | (528 | ) | | 0 | | | (528 | ) 
Balance as of December 31, 2016 | 691,293 | | | $ | 36,307 | | | $ | (2,402 | ) | | $ | 105,131 | | $ | 139,036

See accompanying notes.
45


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Operating activities | | | | | 
Net income | $ | 14,136 | | | $ | 16,348 | | | $ | 19,478
Adjustments: | | | | | 
Depreciation and impairment of property and equipment | 3,523 | | | 4,132 | | | 5,267 | 
Amortization and impairment of intangible assets | 1,456 | | | 931 | | | 877 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 4,279 | | | 5,203 | | | 6,703 | 
Deferred income taxes | (104 | ) | | (179 | ) | | (38 | )
Gain on divestiture of business | (740 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | 
(Gain) loss on marketable and non-marketable investments, net | (390 | ) | | 334 | | | 275 | 
Other | 192 | | | 212 | | | 174 | 
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions: | | | | | 
Accounts receivable | (1,641 | ) | | (2,094 | ) | | (2,578 | )
Income taxes, net | 591 | | | (179 | ) | | 3,125 | 
Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets | 459 | | | (318 | ) | | 312 | 
Accounts payable | 436 | | | 203 | | | 110 | 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities | 757 | | | 1,597 | | | 1,515 | 
Accrued revenue share | 245 | | | 339 | | | 593 | 
Deferred revenue | (175 | ) | | 43 | | | 223 | 
Net cash provided by operating activities | 23,024 | | | 26,572 | | | 36,036 | 
Investing activities | | | | | 
Purchases of property and equipment | (11,014 | ) | | (9,950 | ) | | (10,212 | )
Proceeds from disposals of property and equipment | 55 | | | 35 | | | 240 | 
Purchases of marketable securities | (56,310 | ) | | (74,368 | ) | | (84,509 | )
Maturities and sales of marketable securities | 51,315 | | | 62,905 | | | 66,895 | 
Purchases of non-marketable investments | (1,440 | ) | | (2,326 | ) | | (1,109 | )
Maturities and sales of non-marketable investments | 213 | | | 154 | | | 494 | 
Cash collateral related to securities lending | 1,403 | | | (350 | ) | | (2,428 | )
Investments in reverse repurchase agreements | (775 | ) | | 425 | | | 450 | 
Proceeds from divestiture of business | 386 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible assets | (4,888 | ) | | (236 | ) | | (986 | )
Net cash used in investing activities | (21,055 | ) | | (23,711 | ) | | (31,165 | )
Financing activities | | | | | 
Net payments related to stock-based award activities | (2,069 | ) | | (2,375 | ) | | (3,304 | )
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 0 | | | (47 | ) | | 0 | 
Repurchases of capital stock | 0 | | | (1,780 | ) | | (3,693 | )
Proceeds from issuance of debt, net of costs | 11,625 | | | 13,705 | | | 8,729 | 
Repayments of debt | (11,643 | ) | | (13,728 | ) | | (10,064 | )
Net cash used in financing activities | (2,087 | ) | | (4,225 | ) | | (8,332 | )
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents | (433 | ) | | (434 | ) | | (170 | )
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents | (551 | ) | | (1,798 | ) | | (3,631 | )
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period | 18,898 | | | 18,347 | | | 16,549 | 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period | $ | 18,347 | | | $ | 16,549 | | | $ | 12,918
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information | | | | | 
Cash paid for taxes, net of refunds | $ | 3,138 | | | $ | 3,651 | | | $ | 1,643 
Cash paid for interest | 86 | | | 96 | | | 84 | 

See accompanying notes.
46


Alphabet Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Nature of Operations
Google was incorporated in California in September 1998 and re-incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2003. We generate revenues primarily by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising.
On August 10, 2015, we announced plans to create a new public holding company, Alphabet Inc. (Alphabet), and a new operating structure. On October 2, 2015, we implemented the holding company reorganization, and as a result, Alphabet became the successor issuer to Google Inc. (Google).
The implementation of the holding company reorganization on October 2, 2015 was accounted for as a merger under common control. Alphabet has recognized the assets and liabilities of Google at carryover basis. The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet present comparative information for prior years on a combined basis, as if both Alphabet and Google were under common control for all periods presented.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet include the accounts of Alphabet and all wholly owned subsidiaries as well as all variable interest entities where we are the primary beneficiary. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. 
Use of Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the accounts receivable and sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, income taxes, and contingent liabilities, among others. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition
The following table presents our revenues by segment and revenue source (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Google segment | | | | | 
Google properties | $ | 45,085 | | | $ | 52,357 | | $ | 63,785
Google Network Members' properties | 14,539 | | | 15,033 | | | 15,598
Google advertising revenues | 59,624 | | | 67,390 | | | 79,383
Google other revenues | 6,050 | | | 7,154 | | | 10,080
Google segment revenues | $ | 65,674 | | | $ | 74,544 | | $ | 89,463
Other Bets | | | | | 
Other Bets revenues | $ | 327 | | | $ | 445 | | $ | 809 
Consolidated revenues | $ | 66,001 | | | $ | 74,989 | | $ | 90,272

We generate revenues primarily by delivering performance and brand advertising. Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Brand advertising enhances users’ awareness of and affinity with advertisers’ products and services, through videos, text, images, and other ads that run across various devices. 
Google properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated on Google.com, the Google app, YouTube, and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Maps and Google Play. Google Network Members’ properties revenues consist primarily of revenues generated from placing ads on Google Network Members’ 
47


Alphabet Inc.

properties. Our customers generally purchase ads through AdWords, DoubleClick Bid Manager, and DoubleClick AdExchange, among others. Most of our customers pay us on a cost-per-click basis, which means that an advertiser pays us only when a user engages with the ads by clicking on an ad on Google properties or Google Network Members' properties or by viewing YouTube engagement ads like TrueView (counted as an engagement when the user chooses not to skip the ad). We also offer advertising on other bases such as cost-per-impression, which enables our brand advertisers to pay us based on the number of times their ads are displayed on Google properties and Google Network Members’ properties.
Revenue from advertising is recognized when the goods or services have been delivered or provided, the amounts we charge are fixed or determinable, we and our advertisers or other customers understand the specific nature and terms of the agreed upon transactions, and collectability is reasonably assured. We recognize as revenues the amounts charged to advertisers each time a user engages with ads that appears next to the search results or content on Google properties or Google Network Members’ properties. For those advertisers using our cost-per-impression pricing, we recognize as revenues the amounts charged to advertisers each time their ads are displayed on Google properties or Google Network Members’ properties. We generally report revenues from ads placed on Google Network Members' properties on a gross basis principally because we are the primary obligor to our advertisers.
Revenue from hardware sales to end customers or through distribution channels is generally recognized when the product has been shipped, risk of loss has transferred to the customer, objective evidence exists that customer acceptance provisions have been met, no significant obligations remain and allowances for discounts, price protection, returns and customer incentives, if applicable, can be reasonably and reliably estimated. Revenues are reported net of these allowances.
For the sale of certain third-party products and services, we evaluate whether it is appropriate to recognize revenue based on the gross amount billed to the customers or the net amount earned as revenue share. Generally, when we record revenue on a gross basis, we are the primary obligor in a transaction, and have also considered other factors, including whether we are subject to inventory risk or have latitude in establishing prices. 
For multi-element arrangements, including those that contain software essential to hardware products’ functionality and services, we allocate revenue to each unit of accounting based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, we use a hierarchy to determine the selling prices to be used for allocating revenue: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price, and (iii) best estimate of the selling price (ESP). VSOE generally exists only when we sell the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by us for that deliverable. ESPs reflect our best estimates of what the selling price of the deliverable would be if it was sold regularly on a stand-alone basis.
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received in advance of our performance in the underlying agreement on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of traffic acquisition costs which are ​paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers.
Additionally, other costs of revenues include the following:

• | The expenses associated with the operation of our data centers (including depreciation, labor, energy, and bandwidth costs);


• | Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to certain content providers from whom we license their video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);


• | Credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions;


• | Stock-based compensation expense;


• | Inventory related costs for hardware we sell; and


• | Amortization of certain intangible assets.

Stock-based Compensation
Stock-based compensation includes restricted stock units (RSUs) that will be settled in Alphabet stock as well as awards we expect to ultimately settle in cash. RSUs are measured at the fair market value of the underlying stock at the grant date. Liability classified awards are remeasured at fair value through settlement. We recognize stock-
48


Alphabet Inc.

based compensation using the straight-line method over the requisite service period. With the adoption of ASU 2016-09 on January 1, 2016, we account for forfeitures as they occur.
For RSUs, shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the minimum statutory tax withholding to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, the actual number of shares issued will be fewer than the actual number of RSUs outstanding. We record a liability for withholding amounts to be paid by us primarily as a reduction to additional paid-in capital.
Certain Risks and Concentrations
Our revenues are primarily derived from online advertising, the market for which is highly competitive and rapidly changing. In addition, our revenues are generated from a multitude of vertical market segments in countries around the world. Significant changes in this industry or changes in customer buying or advertiser spending behavior could adversely affect our operating results.
We are subject to concentrations of credit risk principally from cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. Cash equivalents and marketable securities consist primarily of time deposits, money market and other funds, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments issued by foreign governments, debt instruments issued by municipalities in the U.S., corporate debt securities, agency mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from customers located around the world. In 2014, 2015, and 2016, we generated approximately 45%, 46%, and 47% of our revenues from customers based in the U.S., with the majority of revenues from customers outside of the U.S. located in Europe and Japan. We perform ongoing evaluations to determine customer credit and we limit the amount of credit we extend, but generally we do not require collateral from our customers. We maintain reserves for estimated credit losses and these losses have generally been within our expectations.
No individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than 10% of our revenues in 2014, 2015, or 2016.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Our financial assets and financial liabilities including cash equivalents, marketable securities, foreign currency and interest rate derivative contracts, and non-marketable debt securities are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. We measure certain financial assets at fair value for disclosure purposes, as well as on a nonrecurring basis when they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Our other current financial assets and our other current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying value.
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured and classified in accordance with a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the observability of the inputs available in the market used to measure fair value:
Level 1 - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2 - Include other inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activities.
The fair value hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. 
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
We invest all excess cash primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, agency mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments.
49


Alphabet Inc.

We classify all investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and have stated maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase as cash equivalents and those with stated maturities of greater than three months as marketable securities.
We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. We have classified and accounted for our marketable securities as available-for-sale. After consideration of our risk versus reward objectives, as well as our liquidity requirements, we may sell these securities prior to their stated maturities. As we view these securities as available to support current operations, we classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond 12 months as current assets under the caption marketable securities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. We carry these securities at fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, as a component of stockholders’ equity, except for unrealized losses determined to be other-than-temporary, which we record within other income (expense), net. We determine any realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable securities on a specific identification method, and we record such gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net.
Non-Marketable Investments
We have accounted for non-marketable equity investments either under the equity or cost method. Investments through which we exercise significant influence but do not have control over the investee are accounted for under the equity method. Investments through which we are not able to exercise significant influence over the investee are accounted for under the cost method.
We have accounted for our non-marketable investments that meet the definition of a debt security as available-for-sale securities. Since these securities do not have contractual maturity dates and we do not intend to liquidate them in the next 12 months, we have classified them as non-current assets on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Variable Interest Entities
We make a determination at the inception of each arrangement whether an entity in which we have made an investment or in which we have other variable interests is considered a Variable Interest Entity (“VIE”). We consolidate VIEs when we are deemed to be the primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that meets both of the following criteria: (i) has the power to make decisions that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE; and (ii) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE. Periodically, we determine whether any changes occurred requiring a reassessment of whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE. If we are not deemed to be the primary beneficiary in a VIE, we account for the investment or other variable interests in a VIE in accordance with applicable GAAP.
Impairment of Marketable and Non-Marketable Investments
We periodically review our marketable and non-marketable investments for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. Factors we consider to make such determination include the duration and severity of the impairment, the reason for the decline in value and the potential recovery period and our intent to sell. For debt securities, we also consider whether (1) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, and (2) the amortized cost basis cannot be recovered as a result of credit losses. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net.
Accounts Receivable
We record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount and we normally do not charge interest. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to reserve for potentially uncollectible receivables. We review the accounts receivable by amounts due by customers which are past due to identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. In determining the amount of the reserve, we make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. We also maintain a sales allowance to reserve for potential credits issued to customers. We determine the amount of the reserve based on historical credits issued.
Property and Equipment
We account for property and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. We depreciate buildings over periods up to 25 years. We generally depreciate information technology assets over periods up to 7 years. We amortize leasehold improvements over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets. Construction in progress is the construction or development of property and equipment that have not yet been placed 
50


Alphabet Inc.

in service for our intended use. Depreciation for equipment commences once it is placed in service and depreciation for buildings and leasehold improvements commences once they are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated.
Inventory
Inventory consists primarily of finished goods and is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is computed using the first-in, first-out method.
Software Development Costs
We expense software development costs, including costs to develop software products or the software component of products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, before technological feasibility is reached. Technological feasibility is typically reached shortly before the release of such products and as a result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented.
Software development costs also include costs to develop software to be used solely to meet internal needs and cloud based applications used to deliver our services. We capitalize development costs related to these software applications once the preliminary project stage is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented.
Business Combinations
We include the results of operations of the businesses that we acquire as of the acquisition date. We allocate the purchase price of our acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred.
Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets
We review property and equipment, long-term prepayments and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets or the asset group are expected to generate. If the carrying value of the assets are not recoverable, the impairment recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value. In 2014, we recorded impairments of intangible assets, including an impairment of $378 million in the third quarter of 2014 related to a patent licensing royalty asset. Impairments of intangible assets were not material in 2015 or 2016.
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. No goodwill impairment has been identified in any of the years presented.
Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We amortize intangible assets on a straight-line basis with definite lives over periods ranging from one to twelve years.
Income Taxes
We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which we recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based on provisions of enacted tax law. We evaluate the realization of our deferred tax assets based on all available evidence and establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more-likely-than-not that they will not be realized.
We recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more-likely-than not that, based on technical merits, the position will be sustained upon examination. The tax benefits of the position recognized in the financial statements are then measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. In addition, we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the income tax provision.
51


Alphabet Inc.

Foreign Currency
Generally, the functional currency of our international subsidiaries is the local currency. We translate the financial statements of these subsidiaries to U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. We record translation gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income as a component of stockholders’ equity. We reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion of the transaction currency to functional currency as a component of foreign currency exchange losses in other income (expense), net.
Advertising and Promotional Expenses
We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015 and 2016, advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $3,004 million, $3,186 million, and $3,868 million, respectively.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 (Topic 606) "Revenue from Contracts with Customers." Topic 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification Topic 605, “Revenue Recognition”, and requires entities to recognize revenue when they transfer control of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. We intend to early adopt Topic 606 as of January 1, 2017, using the modified retrospective transition method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of that date. Upon adoption, we will recognize the cumulative effect of adopting this guidance as an adjustment to our opening balance of retained earnings. Prior periods will not be retrospectively adjusted. We expect the adoption of Topic 606 will not have a material impact to our consolidated financial statements, including the presentation of revenues in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
In January 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01 (ASU 2016-01) "Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." ASU 2016-01 amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure for financial instruments. ASU 2016-01 is effective for annual reporting periods and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017. The most significant impact relates to the recognition and measurement of equity investments at fair value in the consolidated statement of income. While we continue to evaluate the effect of the standard, we anticipate that the adoption of ASU 2016-01 will increase the volatility of our other income (expense), net, resulting from the remeasurement of our equity investments.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 (Topic 842) "Leases". Topic 842 supersedes the lease recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification Topic 840, "Leases". Under Topic 842, lessees are required to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most leases and provide enhanced disclosures. Leases will continue to be classified as either finance or operating. Topic 842 is effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2018. Entities are required to use a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements, and there are certain optional practical expedients that an entity may elect to apply. Full retrospective application is prohibited and early adoption by public entities is permitted. We anticipate that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will materially affect our statement of financial position and will require changes to our systems and processes. We have not yet made any decision on the timing of adoption or method of adoption with respect to the optional practical expedients.
In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 (ASU 2016-13) "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" which requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost. ASU 2016-13 replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of credit losses. ASU 2016-13 is effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on our consolidated financial statements.
Recently adopted accounting pronouncements
In June 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-10 (ASU 2014-10) "Development Stage Entities (Topic 915): Elimination of Certain Financial Reporting Requirements, Including an Amendment to Variable Interest Entities Guidance in Topic 810, Consolidation." ASU 2014-10 removes the definition of a development stage 
52


Alphabet Inc.

entity from the Master Glossary of the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), thereby removing the financial reporting distinction between development stage entities and other reporting entities. The additional elimination of related consolidation guidance requires companies with interests in development stage entities to reassess whether such entities are variable interest entities under ASC Topic 810, Consolidation. We adopted this standard in the first quarter of 2016 on a retrospective basis. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Additional disclosures have been made related to certain entities that are now considered variable interest entities under this standard. See Note 7 for details.
In February 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-02 (ASU 2015-02) "Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis." ASU 2015-02 changes the analysis that a reporting entity must perform to determine whether it should consolidate certain types of legal entities. We adopted this standard in the first quarter of 2016 on a retrospective basis. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements but resulted in additional investments being considered variable interest entities. 
In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09 (ASU 2016-09) "Compensation—Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." We have elected to early adopt these amendments beginning in the first quarter of 2016. Stock-based compensation excess tax benefits or deficiencies are now reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of the provision for income taxes, whereas they previously were recognized in equity. Additionally, our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows now include excess tax benefits as an operating activity, with the prior periods adjusted accordingly. Finally, we have elected to account for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09, the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014 and 2015 were adjusted as follows: $648 million and $548 million increases to net cash provided by operating activities, respectively, and $648 million and $548 million increases to net cash used in financing activities, respectively. 
Revision of Previously Disclosed Information
During the third quarter of 2016, we identified an omission in our supplemental disclosure of cash paid for income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We have evaluated the materiality of the impact quantitatively and qualitatively and concluded it was not material to any of the prior periods impacted. We elected to revise the supplemental disclosure for the comparable periods presented. The revision only impacted our supplemental disclosures included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Prior Period Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
Note 2. Financial Instruments
We classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities within Level 1 or Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we use quoted market prices or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs to determine their fair value. We classify our foreign currency and interest rate derivative contracts primarily within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments.
53


Alphabet Inc.

Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
 The following tables summarize our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities by significant investment categories as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2015
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Cash | $ | 7,380 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 7,380 | | $ | 7,380 | $ | 0 
Level 1: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Money market and other funds | 5,623 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 5,623 | | 5,623 | | 0 | 
U.S. government notes | 20,922 | | | 27 | | | (48 | ) | | 20,901 | | 258 | | 20,643 | 
Marketable equity securities | 692 | | | 155 | | | 0 | | | 847 | | 0 | | 847 | 
 | 27,237 | | | 182 | | | (48 | ) | | 27,371 | | 5,881 | | 21,490 | 
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | 3,223 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 3,223 | | 2,012 | | 1,211 | 
Money market and other funds(2) | 1,140 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 1,140 | | 1,140 | | 0 | 
Fixed-income bond funds(3) | 219 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 219 | | 0 | | 219 | 
U.S. government agencies | 1,367 | | | 2 | | | (3 | ) | | 1,366 | | 0 | | 1,366 | 
Foreign government bonds | 2,242 | | | 14 | | | (23 | ) | | 2,233 | | 0 | | 2,233 | 
Municipal securities | 3,812 | | | 47 | | | (4 | ) | | 3,855 | | 0 | | 3,855 | 
Corporate debt securities | 13,809 | | | 53 | | | (278 | ) | | 13,584 | | 136 | | 13,448 | 
Agency mortgage-backed securities | 9,680 | | | 48 | | | (57 | ) | | 9,671 | | 0 | | 9,671 | 
Asset-backed securities | 3,032 | | | 0 | | | (8 | ) | | 3,024 | | 0 | | 3,024 | 
 | 38,524 | | | 164 | | | (373 | ) | | 38,315 | | 3,288 | | 35,027 | 
Total | $ | 73,141 | | | $ | 346 | | | $ | (421 | ) | $ | 73,066 | | $ | 16,549 | $ | 56,517


 | As of December 31, 2016
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Cash | $ | 7,078 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 7,078 | | $ | 7,078 | $ | 0 
Level 1: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Money market and other funds | 4,783 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 4,783 | | 4,783 | | 0 | 
U.S. government notes | 38,454 | | | 46 | | | (215 | ) | | 38,285 | | 613 | | 37,672 | 
Marketable equity securities | 160 | | | 133 | | | 0 | | | 293 | | 0 | | 293 | 
 | 43,397 | | | 179 | | | (215 | ) | | 43,361 | | 5,396 | | 37,965 | 
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | 142 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 142 | | 140 | | 2 | 
Mutual funds(4) | 204 | | | 7 | | | 0 | | | 211 | | 0 | | 211 | 
U.S. government agencies | 1,826 | | | 0 | | | (11 | ) | | 1,815 | | 300 | | 1,515 | 
Foreign government bonds | 2,345 | | | 18 | | | (7 | ) | | 2,356 | | 0 | | 2,356 | 
Municipal securities | 4,757 | | | 15 | | | (65 | ) | | 4,707 | | 2 | | 4,705 | 
Corporate debt securities | 12,993 | | | 114 | | | (116 | ) | | 12,991 | | 2 | | 12,989 | 
Agency mortgage-backed securities | 12,006 | | | 26 | | | (216 | ) | | 11,816 | | 0 | | 11,816 | 
Asset-backed securities | 1,855 | | | 2 | | | (1 | ) | | 1,856 | | 0 | | 1,856 | 
 | 36,128 | | | 182 | | | (416 | ) | | 35,894 | | 444 | | 35,450 | 
Total | $ | 86,603 | | | $ | 361 | | | $ | (631 | ) | $ | 86,333 | | $ | 12,918 | $ | 73,415


(1) | The majority of our time deposits are foreign deposits.


(2) | The balance related to cash collateral received in connection with our securities lending program, which was invested in reverse repurchase agreements maturing within three months. See section titled "Securities Lending Program" below for further discussion of this program.

54


Alphabet Inc.


(3) | Fixed-income bond funds consist of mutual funds that primarily invest in corporate and government bonds.


(4) | The fair value option was elected for mutual funds with gains (losses) recognized in other income (expense), net.

We determine realized gains or losses on the marketable securities on a specific identification method. We recognized gross realized gains of $238 million, $357 million, and $272 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016. We recognized gross realized losses of $85 million, $565 million, and $482 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016. We reflect these gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net, in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of our investments in marketable debt securities, accounted for as available-for-sale securities and classified by the contractual maturity date of the securities (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2016
Due in 1 year | $ | 13,066
Due in 1 year through 5 years | 38,762 | 
Due in 5 years through 10 years | 8,382 | 
Due after 10 years | 12,701 | 
Total | $ | 72,911

The following tables present gross unrealized losses and fair values for those investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2015 and 2016, aggregated by investment category and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position (in millions): 

 | As of December 31, 2015
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
U.S. government notes | $ | 13,757 | | | $ | (48 | ) | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 13,757 | $ | (48 | )
U.S. government agencies | 864 | | | (3 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 864 | | | (3 | )
Foreign government bonds | 885 | | | (18 | ) | | 36 | | (5 | ) | 921 | | | (23 | )
Municipal securities | 1,116 | | | (3 | ) | | 41 | | (1 | ) | 1,157 | | | (4 | )
Corporate debt securities | 9,192 | | | (202 | ) | | 784 | | (76 | ) | 9,976 | | | (278 | )
Agency mortgage-backed securities | 5,783 | | | (34 | ) | | 721 | | (23 | ) | 6,504 | | | (57 | )
Asset-backed securities | 2,508 | | | (7 | ) | | 386 | | (1 | ) | 2,894 | | | (8 | )
Total | $ | 34,105 | | | $ | (315 | ) | $ | 1,968 | | $ | (106 | ) | | $ | 36,073 | $ | (421 | )


 | As of December 31, 2016
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
U.S. government notes | $ | 26,411 | | | $ | (215 | ) | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 26,411 | $ | (215 | )
U.S. government agencies | 1,014 | | | (11 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 1,014 | | | (11 | )
Foreign government bonds | 956 | | | (7 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 956 | | | (7 | )
Municipal securities | 3,461 | | | (63 | ) | | 46 | | (2 | ) | 3,507 | | | (65 | )
Corporate debt securities | 6,184 | | | (111 | ) | | 166 | | (5 | ) | 6,350 | | | (116 | )
Agency mortgage-backed securities | 10,184 | | | (206 | ) | | 259 | | (10 | ) | 10,443 | | | (216 | )
Asset-backed securities | 391 | | | (1 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 391 | | | (1 | )
Total | $ | 48,601 | | | $ | (614 | ) | $ | 471 | | $ | (17 | ) | | $ | 49,072 | $ | (631 | )

During the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2016, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment loss. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized $281 million of other-than-temporary impairment losses related to our marketable equity securities and fixed-income bond funds. Those losses are included in gain (loss) on marketable securities, net as a component of other income (expense), net, in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 5 for further details on other income (expense), net.
55


Alphabet Inc.

Securities Lending Program
We entered into securities lending agreements with financial institutions to enhance investment income. We loaned certain securities which were collateralized in the form of cash or securities. Cash collateral was usually invested in reverse repurchase agreements which were collateralized in the form of securities. 
We classified loaned securities as cash equivalents or marketable securities and recorded the cash collateral as an asset with a corresponding liability in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. We classified reverse repurchase agreements maturing within three months as cash equivalents and those longer than three months as receivable under reverse repurchase agreements in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. For security collateral received, we did not record an asset or liability except in the event of counterparty default. 
Our securities lending transactions were accounted for as secured borrowings with significant investment categories as follows (in millions): 

 | As of December 31, 2015 
 | Remaining Contractual Maturity of the Agreements
Securities Lending Transactions | Overnight and Continuous | | Up to 30 days | | 30 - 90 Days | | Greater Than 90 Days | Total
U.S. government notes | $ | 1,322 | | | $ | 31 | | $ | 0 | $ | 306 | $ | 1,659
U.S. government agencies | 504 | | | 77 | | | 0 | | 0 | 581 | 
Corporate debt securities | 188 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | 188 | 
Total | $ | 2,014 | | | $ | 108 | | $ | 0 | $ | 306 | $ | 2,428
Gross amount of recognized liabilities for securities lending in offsetting disclosure | | $ | 2,428 | 
Amounts related to agreements not included in securities lending in offsetting disclosure | | $ | 0 | 

As of December 31, 2016, we ended our securities lending program resulting in no cash collateral outstanding. 
Derivative Financial Instruments
We recognize derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. We record changes in the fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of the derivatives in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income as other income (expense), net, revenues, or accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, as discussed below.
We enter into foreign currency contracts with financial institutions to reduce the risk that our cash flows and earnings will be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We use certain interest rate derivative contracts to hedge interest rate exposures on our fixed income securities and debt issuances. Our program is not used for trading or speculative purposes.
We enter into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. To further reduce credit risk, we enter into collateral security arrangements under which the counterparty is required to provide collateral when the net fair value of certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. We can take possession of the collateral in the event of counterparty default. As of December 31, 2015 and 2016, we received cash collateral related to the derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements of $192 million and $362 million.
Cash Flow Hedges
We use foreign currency option and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges to hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and at times we use interest rate swaps to effectively lock interest rates on anticipated debt issuances. These transactions are designated as cash flow hedges. The notional principal of these contracts was approximately $16.4 billion and $10.7 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2016. These contracts have maturities of 36 months or less.
We reflect gain or loss on the effective portion of a cash flow hedge as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassify cumulative gains and losses to revenues or interest expense when the hedged transactions are recorded. If the hedged transactions become probable of not occurring, the corresponding amounts in AOCI is immediately reclassified to other income (expense), net. Further, we exclude the change in the time value and forward points of foreign currency options and forward contracts from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. We recognize changes of the excluded components in other income (expense), net.
56


Alphabet Inc.

As of December 31, 2016, the effective portion of our cash flow hedges before tax effect was a net accumulated gain of $603 million, of which $567 million is expected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings within the next 12 months.
Fair Value Hedges
We use forward contracts designated as fair value hedges to hedge foreign currency risks for our investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We exclude changes in forward points for the forward contracts from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The notional principal of these contracts was $1.8 billion and $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2016.
We have used interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges to hedge interest rate risk for certain fixed rate securities. The notional principal of these contracts was $295 million and $0 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2016.
Gains and losses on these forward contracts and interest rate swaps are recognized in other income (expense), net, along with the offsetting losses and gains of the related hedged items.
Other Derivatives
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward contracts that we use to hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of a subsidiary. We recognize gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs in other income (expense), net, along with the foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities. The notional principal of these foreign exchange contracts outstanding was $7.5 billion and $7.9 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2016.
We also use exchange-traded interest rate futures contracts and “To Be Announced” (TBA) forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to hedge interest rate risks on certain fixed income securities. The TBA contracts meet the definition of derivative instruments in cases where physical delivery of the assets is not taken at the earliest available delivery date. Our interest rate futures and TBA contracts (together interest rate contracts) are not designated as hedging instruments. We recognize gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs, in other income (expense), net. The gains and losses are generally economically offset by unrealized gains and losses in the underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded as a component of AOCI until the securities are sold or other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the amounts are moved from AOCI into other income (expense), net. The total notional amounts of interest rate contracts outstanding were $50 million and $0 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2016.
The fair values of our outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | | As of December 31, 2015 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, current and non-current | $ | 626 | | | $ | 2 | | $ | 628
Total | | $ | 626 | | | $ | 2 | | $ | 628
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 1 | | | $ | 13 | | $ | 14 
Interest rate contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | 2 | | | 0 | | | 2
Total | | $ | 3 | | | $ | 13 | | $ | 16 

57


Alphabet Inc.


 | | As of December 31, 2016 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, current and non-current | $ | 539 | | | $ | 57 | | $ | 596
Total | | $ | 539 | | | $ | 57 | | $ | 596
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | $ | 4 | | | $ | 9 | | $ | 13 
Interest rate contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0
Total | | $ | 4 | | | $ | 9 | | $ | 13 

The effect of derivative instruments in cash flow hedging relationships on income and other comprehensive income (OCI) is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in OCIon Derivatives Before Tax Effect (Effective Portion)
 | Year Ended December 31, 
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Foreign exchange contracts | $ | 929 | | | $ | 964 | | $ | 773
Interest rate contracts | (31 | ) | | 0 | | | 0
Total | $ | 898 | | | $ | 964 | | $ | 773


 | Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI into Income (Effective Portion)
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship | Location | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Foreign exchange contracts | Revenues | $ | 171 | | | $ | 1,399 | | $ | 539
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 4 | | | 5 | | | 5
Total | | $ | 175 | | | $ | 1,404 | | $ | 544


 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income on Derivatives (AmountExcluded from Effectiveness Testing and Ineffective Portion) (1) 
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship | Location | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Foreign exchange contracts | Other income (expense), net | $ | (279 | ) | | $ | (297 | ) | $ | (381 | )
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 4 | | | 0 | | | 0
Total | | $ | (275 | ) | | $ | (297 | ) | $ | (381 | )


(1) | Gains (losses) related to the ineffective portion of the hedges were not material in all periods presented.

58


Alphabet Inc.

The effect of derivative instruments in fair value hedging relationships on income is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income on Derivatives(2)
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives in Fair Value Hedging Relationship | Location | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Foreign Exchange Hedges: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other income (expense), net | $ | 115 | | | $ | 170 | | | $ | 145 | 
Hedged item | Other income (expense), net | (123 | ) | | (176 | ) | | (139 | )
Total | | $ | (8 | ) | | $ | (6 | ) | | $ | 6 | 
Interest Rate Hedges: | | | | | | 
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | $ | 0 | | | $ | (2 | ) | | $ | (3 | )
Hedged item | Other income (expense), net | 0 | | | 2 | | | 3 | 
Total | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | 


(2) | Amounts excluded from effectiveness testing and the ineffective portion of the fair value hedging relationships were not material in all periods presented

The effect of derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments on income is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income on Derivatives 
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives Not Designated As Hedging Instruments | Location | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Foreign exchange contracts | Other income (expense), net, and net income from discontinued operations | $ | 237 | | | $ | 198 | | | $ | 130
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 2 | | | 1 | | | (11 | )
Total | | $ | 239 | | | $ | 199 | | | $ | 119

Offsetting of Derivatives, Securities Lending, and Reverse Repurchase Agreements
We present our derivatives, securities lending and reverse repurchase agreements at gross fair values in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, our master netting and other similar arrangements allow net settlements under certain conditions. As of December 31, 2015 and 2016, information related to these offsetting arrangements was as follows (in millions):
59


Alphabet Inc.


Offsetting of Assets | | | | | | | | | | | 
 | As of December 31, 2015 
 | | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
Description | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 628 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 628 | | $ | (13 | ) | (1) | $ | (189 | ) | $ | (214 | ) | $ | 212
Reverse repurchase agreements | 1,590 | | | 0 | | | 1,590 | (2) | 0 | | 0 | | | (1,590 | ) | | 0
Total | $ | 2,218 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 2,218 | | $ | (13 | ) | | $ | (189 | ) | $ | (1,804 | ) | $ | 212
 | As of December 31, 2016 
 | | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
Description | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 596 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 596 | | $ | (11 | ) | (1) | $ | (337 | ) | $ | (73 | ) | $ | 175


(1) | The balances as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 were related to derivative liabilities which are allowed to be net settled against derivative assets in accordance with our master netting agreements.


(2) | The balances as of December 31, 2015 included $1,140 million recorded in cash and cash equivalents and $450 million recorded in receivable under reverse repurchase agreements.


Offsetting of Liabilities | | | | | | | | | | | 
 | As of December 31, 2015 
 | | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
Description | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 16 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 16 | | $ | (13 | ) | (3) | $ | (3 | ) | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 
Securities lending agreements | 2,428 | | | 0 | | | 2,428 | | 0 | | 0 | | | (2,401 | ) | | 27
Total | $ | 2,444 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 2,444 | | $ | (13 | ) | | $ | (3 | ) | $ | (2,401 | ) | $ | 27
 | As of December 31, 2016 
 | | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset
Description | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 13 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 13 | | $ | (11 | ) | (3) | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | | $ | 2 


(3) | The balances as of December 31, 2015 and 2016 were related to derivative assets which are allowed to be net settled against derivative liabilities in accordance with our master netting agreements.

Note 3. Non-Marketable Investments
Our non-marketable investments include non-marketable equity investments and non-marketable debt securities. 
 Non-Marketable Equity Investments
Our non-marketable equity investments are investments we have made in privately-held companies accounted for under the equity or cost method and are not required to be consolidated under the variable interest or voting models. As of December 31, 2015 and 2016, investments accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of approximately $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. Our share of equity method investee earnings and losses 
60


Alphabet Inc.

including impairment was a net loss of $48 million, $227 million, and $202 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2015 and 2016, investments accounted for under the cost method had a carrying value of $2.6 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, and a fair value of approximately $7.5 billion and $8.1 billion, respectively. The fair value of the cost method investments are primarily determined from data leveraging private-market transactions and are classified within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. We reflect our share of equity method investee earnings and losses and impairments of non-marketable equity investments as a component of other income (expense), net, in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.
Certain renewable energy investments included in our non-marketable equity investments accounted for under the equity method are variable interest entities ("VIE"). These entities' activities involve power generation using renewable sources. We have determined that the governance structures of these entities do not allow us to direct the activities that would significantly impact VIE's economic performance such as setting operating budgets. Therefore, we do not consolidate these VIEs in our financial statements. The carrying value of these VIEs was $1.3 billion with a maximum exposure of $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2015 and $1.2 billion with a maximum exposure of $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2016. The maximum exposure is based on current investments to date.  We have determined the single source of our exposure to these VIEs is our capital investment in these entities. We periodically reassess whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The reassessment process considers whether we have acquired the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE through changes in governing documents or other circumstances. We also reconsider whether entities previously determined not to be VIEs have become VIEs, and vice versa, based on changes in facts and circumstances including changes in contractual arrangements and capital structure.
Non-Marketable Debt Securities
Our non-marketable debt securities are primarily preferred stock that are redeemable at our option and convertible notes issued by private companies. The cost of these securities was $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2016, respectively. These debt securities do not have readily determinable market values and are categorized accordingly as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. To estimate the fair value of these securities, we use a combination of valuation methodologies, including market and income approaches based on prior transaction prices; estimated timing, probability, and amount of cash flows; and illiquidity considerations. Financial information of private companies may not be available and consequently we will estimate the value based on the best available information at the measurement date. No significant impairments were recognized for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016. 
The following table presents a reconciliation for our non-marketable debt securities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31
2015 | | 2016 
Beginning balance | $ | 90 | | $ | 1,024
Total net gains or losses | | 
Included in other comprehensive income | 0 | | 106 | 
Purchases | 960 | | 78 | 
Sales | (6 | ) | (18 | )
Settlements | (20 | ) | (25 | )
Ending balance | $ | 1,024 | | $ | 1,165

Note 4. Debt
Short-Term Debt
Google had a short-term debt financing program of up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper and a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2015. In February 2016, we replaced this program with a new short-term debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper and a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility, which expires in February 2021. Net proceeds from these programs are used for general corporate purposes. 
We had $2.0 billion of outstanding commercial paper recorded as short-term debt with a weighted-average interest rate of 0.2% as of December 31, 2015 and no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2016. The estimated fair value of the short-term debt approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2015. 
The interest rate for the credit facility is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. No amounts were outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016. 
61


Alphabet Inc.

In August 2013, we entered into a capital lease obligation on certain property expiring in 2028. In September 2016, we exercised our option to purchase the property for approximately $220 million.
Long-Term Debt
Google issued $3.0 billion of unsecured senior notes in three tranches (collectively, the "2011 Notes") in May 2011, due in 2014, 2016, and 2021, as well as $1.0 billion of unsecured senior notes (the "2014 Notes") in February 2014 due 2024. 
In April 2016, we completed an exchange offer with eligible holders of Google’s 2011 Notes due 2021 and 2014 Notes due 2024 (collectively, the "Google Notes"). An aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.7 billion of the Google Notes was exchanged for approximately $1.7 billion of Alphabet notes with identical interest rate and maturity. Because the exchange was between a parent and the subsidiary company and for substantially identical notes, the change was treated as a debt modification for accounting purposes with no gain or loss recognized. 
In August 2016, Alphabet issued $2.0 billion of unsecured senior notes (the "2016 Notes") due 2026. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2016 Notes were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of outstanding commercial paper. The Alphabet notes due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 rank equally with each other and are structurally subordinated to the outstanding Google Notes.
 The total outstanding long-term debt is summarized below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2015 | | As ofDecember 31, 2016
Short-Term Portion of Long-Term Debt | | | 
2.125% Notes due on May 19, 2016 | $ | 1,000 | | | $ | 0 
Capital Lease Obligation | 225 | | | 0 | 
Total Short-Term Portion of Long-Term Debt | $ | 1,225 | | | $ | 0 
Long-Term Debt | | | 
3.625% Notes due on May 19, 2021 | $ | 1,000 | | | $ | 1,000
3.375% Notes due on February 25, 2024 | 1,000 | | | 1,000 | 
1.998% Notes due on August 15, 2026 | 0 | | | 2,000 | 
Unamortized discount for the Notes above | (5 | ) | | (65 | )
Total Long-Term Debt(1) | $ | 1,995 | | | $ | 3,935

(1) Includes the outstanding (and unexchanged) Google Notes issued in 2011 and 2014 and the Alphabet notes exchanged in 2016.
The effective interest yields based on proceeds received from the outstanding notes due in 2021, 2024 and 2026 were 3.734%, 3.377% and 2.231% respectively, with interest payable semi-annually. We may redeem these notes at any time in whole or in part at specified redemption prices. The total estimated fair value of all outstanding notes was approximately $3.1 billion as of December 31, 2015 and $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2016. The fair value was determined based on observable market prices of identical instruments in less active markets and is categorized accordingly as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
As of December 31, 2016, aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt were as follows (in millions):

Years Ending | 
2017 | $ | 0 
2018 | 0 | 
2019 | 0 | 
2020 | 0 | 
Thereafter | 4,000 | 
Total | $ | 4,000

62


Alphabet Inc.

Note 5. Supplemental Financial Statement Information
Property and Equipment, Net
Property and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2015 | | As ofDecember 31, 2016
Land and buildings | $ | 16,518 | | | $ | 19,804
Information technology assets | 13,645 | | | 16,084 | 
Construction in progress | 7,324 | | | 8,166 | 
Leasehold improvements | 2,576 | | | 3,415 | 
Furniture and fixtures | 83 | | | 58 | 
Property and equipment, gross | 40,146 | | | 47,527 | 
Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization | (11,130 | ) | | (13,293 | )
Property and equipment, net | $ | 29,016 | | | $ | 34,234

As of December 31, 2016, assets under capital lease with a cost basis of $299 million were included in property and equipment. 
Note Receivable
In connection with the sale of our Motorola Mobile business on October 29, 2014 (see Note 9 for additional information), we received an interest-free, three-year prepayable promissory note (the "Note Receivable") due October 2017. The Note Receivable was included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, non-current, as of December 31, 2015, and in current assets, prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, as of December 31, 2016. Based on the general market conditions and the credit quality of Lenovo at the time of the sale, we discounted the Note Receivable at an effective interest rate of 4.5%. The outstanding balances are shown in the table below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2015 | | As ofDecember 31, 2016
Principal of the Note Receivable | $ | 1,448 | | | $ | 1,448
Less: unamortized discount for the Note Receivable | (112 | ) | | (51 | )
Total | $ | 1,336 | | | $ | 1,397

As of December 31, 2015 and 2016, we did not recognize a valuation allowance on the Note Receivable.
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2015 | | As ofDecember 31, 2016
Accrued customer liabilities | $ | 908 | | | $ | 1,256
Other accrued expenses and current liabilities | 3,860 | | | 4,888 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | $ | 4,768 | | | $ | 6,144

63


Alphabet Inc.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The components of AOCI, net of tax, were as follows (in millions):

 | Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Investments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges | | Total 
Balance as of December 31, 2013 | $ | 16 | | | $ | 50 | | | $ | 59 | | $ | 125 | 
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (996 | ) | | 505 | | | 651 | | | 160 | 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (134 | ) | | (124 | ) | | (258 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (996 | ) | | 371 | | | 527 | | | (98 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | $ | (980 | ) | | $ | 421 | | | $ | 586 | | $ | 27 | 
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (1,067 | ) | | (715 | ) | | 676 | | | (1,106 | )
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 208 | | | (1,003 | ) | | (795 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,067 | ) | | (507 | ) | | (327 | ) | | (1,901 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | $ | (2,047 | ) | | $ | (86 | ) | | $ | 259 | | $ | (1,874 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (599 | ) | | (314 | ) | | 515 | | | (398 | )
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 221 | | | (351 | ) | | (130 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (599 | ) | | (93 | ) | | 164 | | | (528 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2016 | $ | (2,646 | ) | | $ | (179 | ) | | $ | 423 | | $ | (2,402 | )

The effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI were as follows (in millions):

 | | Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI to the Consolidated Statement of Income
 | | Year Ended December 31, 
AOCI Components | Location | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments | | | | | | 
 | Other income (expense), net | $ | 153 | | | $ | (208 | ) | | $ | (221 | )
 | Provision for income taxes | (19 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | 
 | Net of tax | $ | 134 | | | $ | (208 | ) | | $ | (221 | )
Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Revenue | $ | 171 | | | $ | 1,399 | | | $ | 539 | 
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 4 | | | 5 | | | 5 | 
 | Provision for income taxes | (51 | ) | | (401 | ) | | (193 | )
 | Net of tax | $ | 124 | | | $ | 1,003 | | | $ | 351 | 
Total amount reclassified, net of tax | | $ | 258 | | | $ | 795 | | | $ | 130 | 

64


Alphabet Inc.

Other Income (Expense), Net 
The components of other income (expense), net, were as follows (in millions): 

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Interest income | $ | 746 | | | $ | 999 | | | $ | 1,220
Interest expense | (101 | ) | | (104 | ) | | (124 | )
Foreign currency exchange losses, net (1) | (402 | ) | | (422 | ) | | (475 | )
Gain (loss) on marketable securities, net | 153 | | | (208 | ) | | (210 | )
Gain (loss) on non-marketable investments, net | 237 | | | (126 | ) | | (65 | )
Other | 130 | | | 152 | | | 88 | 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 763 | | | $ | 291 | | | $ | 434 


(1) | Our foreign currency exchange losses, net, are related to the option premium costs and forward points for our foreign currency hedging contracts, our foreign exchange transaction gains and losses from the conversion of the transaction currency to the functional currency, offset by the foreign currency hedging contract losses and gains. The net foreign currency transaction losses were $107 million, $123 million, and $112 million in 2014, 2015, and 2016, respectively.

Note 6. Acquisitions
2016 Acquisitions
Apigee
In October 2016, we completed the acquisition of Apigee Corp., a provider of application programming interface (API) management, for approximately $571 million in cash. We expect the acquisition to accelerate our Google Cloud customers’ move to supporting their businesses with high quality digital interactions. Of the total purchase price of $571 million, $41 million was cash acquired, $127 million was attributed to intangible assets, $376 million was attributed to goodwill, and $27 million was attributed to net assets acquired. Goodwill, which was recorded in the Google segment, is primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition and is not deductible for tax purposes.
Other Acquisitions
During the year ended December 31, 2016, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $448 million. In aggregate, $12 million was cash acquired, $143 million was attributed to intangible assets, $288 million was attributed to goodwill, and $5 million was attributed to net assets acquired. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expanding our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $67 million.
Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in aggregate.
For all intangible assets acquired and purchased during the year ended December 31, 2016, patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of 4.5 years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of 3.4 years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of 6.2 years.
2015 Acquisitions
bebop Technologies
In December 2015, we completed the acquisition of bebop Technologies Inc. (bebop), a company with a cloud-based development platform focused on enterprise applications. The fair value of total consideration transferred in connection with the close was $272 million, of which $1 million was paid in cash and $271 million was paid in the form of Alphabet Class C capital stock. We issued a total of approximately 514 thousand shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock in relation to this acquisition, part of which will be accounted for as compensation expense. The fair value of the shares of capital stock issued was determined based on the closing market price of Alphabet's Class C capital stock as of the close date. The Class C capital stock issued by Alphabet in connection with the acquisition was treated as a capital contribution from Alphabet to Google. We expect the acquisition will help us provide a new platform to build and maintain enterprise applications. As part of the acquisition, Diane Greene, the former CEO of bebop and a member of our Board of Directors, has joined Google.
65


Alphabet Inc.

Of the total purchase price of $272 million, $28 million was cash acquired, $59 million was attributed to intangible assets, $206 million was attributed to goodwill, and $21 million was attributed to net liabilities assumed. The goodwill, which was recorded in the Google segment, is primarily attributable to the synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Other Acquisitions
During the year ended December 31, 2015, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $263 million, which includes the fair value of our previously held equity interest of $0 million. In aggregate, $4 million was cash acquired, $88 million was attributed to intangible assets, $138 million was attributed to goodwill, and $33 million was attributed to net assets acquired. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expanding our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $20 million.
Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in aggregate.
For all intangible assets acquired during the year ended December 31, 2015, patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of 4.1 years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of 4.0 years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of 6.8 years.
Note 7. Calico
On September 18, 2013, we announced the formation of Calico, a life science company with a mission to harness advanced technologies to increase our understanding of the biology that controls lifespan. As of December 31, 2016, we have contributed $240 million to Calico in exchange for Calico convertible preferred units and are committed to fund an additional $490 million on an as-needed basis. 
Calico is a VIE and its results of operations and statement of financial position are included in our consolidated financial statements as we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact its economic performance.
In September 2014, AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) and Calico announced a research and development collaboration agreement intended to help both companies discover, develop, and bring to market new therapies for patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer. As of December 31, 2016, AbbVie has contributed $750 million to fund the collaboration pursuant to the agreement, which reflects its total commitment. As of December 31, 2016, Calico has contributed $250 million and committed up to an additional $500 million.
Calico has used its scientific expertise to establish a world-class research and development facility, with a focus on drug discovery and early drug development; and AbbVie provides scientific and clinical development support and its commercial expertise to bring new discoveries to market. Both companies share costs and profits equally. AbbVie's contribution has been recorded as a liability on Calico's financial statements, which is reduced and reflected as a reduction to research and development expense as eligible research and development costs are incurred by Calico over the next few years. 
Note 8. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to our disclosed segments for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2016 were as follows (in millions):

 | Google | | Other Bets | | Total Consolidated
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | $ | 15,599 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 15,599
Acquisitions | 139 | | | 0 | | | 139 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | (71 | ) | | 0 | | | (71 | )
Allocation in the fourth quarter of 2015 | (416 | ) | | 416 | | | 0 | 
Acquisitions | 201 | | | 4 | | | 205 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | 4 | | | (7 | ) | | (3 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | $ | 15,456 | | | $ | 413 | | | $ | 15,869
Acquisitions | 625 | | | 39 | | | 664 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | (54 | ) | | (11 | ) | | (65 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2016 | $ | 16,027 | | | $ | 441 | | | $ | 16,468

66


Alphabet Inc.

Other Intangible Assets
Information regarding our purchased intangible assets is as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2015
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingAmount
Patents and developed technology | $ | 6,592 | | | $ | 3,213 | | $ | 3,379
Customer relationships | 1,343 | | | 1,201 | | | 142
Trade names and other | 795 | | | 469 | | | 326
Total | $ | 8,730 | | | $ | 4,883 | | $ | 3,847


 | As of December 31, 2016
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingValue
Patents and developed technology | $ | 5,542 | | | $ | 2,710 | | $ | 2,832
Customer relationships | 352 | | | 197 | | | 155
Trade names and other | 463 | | | 143 | | | 320
Total | $ | 6,357 | | | $ | 3,050 | | $ | 3,307

Patents and developed technology, customer relationships, and trade names and other have weighted-average remaining useful lives of 4.6 years, 2.3 years, and 4.7 years, respectively. Amortization expense relating to our purchased intangible assets was $1,079 million, $892 million, and $833 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2016, $2.6 billion of intangible assets that were fully amortized have been removed from gross intangible assets and accumulated amortization.
During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded an impairment charge in other cost of revenues of $378 million related to a patent licensing royalty asset acquired in connection with the Motorola acquisition, which we retained subsequent to the sale of Motorola Mobile. The asset was determined to be impaired due to prolonged decreased royalty payments and unpaid interest owed and was written down to its fair value. Fair value was determined based on a discounted cash flow method and reflects estimated future cash flows associated with the patent licensing royalty asset at the measurement date and falls within level 3 in fair value hierarchy. Impairments of intangible assets were not material for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2016.
As of December 31, 2016, expected amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets for each of the next five years and thereafter was as follows (in millions):

2017 | $ | 764 
2018 | 685 | 
2019 | 579 | 
2020 | 487 | 
2021 | 460 | 
Thereafter | 332 | 
 | $ | 3,307

Note 9. Discontinued Operations
Motorola Mobile
On October 29, 2014, we closed the sale of the Motorola Mobile business to Lenovo for a total purchase price of approximately $2.9 billion, including $1.4 billion paid at close, comprised of $660 million in cash and $750 million in Lenovo ordinary shares (519.1 million shares). The remaining $1.5 billion was paid in the form of an interest-free, three-year prepayable promissory note.
We maintain ownership of the vast majority of the Motorola Mobile patent portfolio, including pre-closing patent applications and invention disclosures, which we licensed to Motorola Mobile for its continued operations. Additionally, 
67


Alphabet Inc.

in connection with the sale, we agreed to indemnify Lenovo for certain potential liabilities of the Motorola Mobile business, for which we recorded an indemnification liability of $130 million.
The sale resulted in a gain of $740 million, net of tax, which was presented as part of net income from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2014. Incremental to this net gain, we recognized additional income of $254 million, net of tax, in connection with certain IP licensing arrangements between the parties, included as part of net income from discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2014.
The financial results of Motorola Mobile through the date of divestiture are presented as net income (loss) from discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Income. The following table presents financial results of the Motorola Mobile business included in net income (loss) from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 (1) 
Revenues | $ | 5,486
Loss from discontinued operations before income taxes | (177 | ) 
Benefits from/(Provision for) income taxes | (47 | ) 
Gain on disposal | 740 | 
Net (loss) income from discontinued operations | $ | 516 


(1) | The operating results of Motorola Mobile were included in our Consolidated Statements of Income from January 1, 2014 through October 29, 2014, the date of divestiture.

The following table presents the aggregate carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities divested (in millions): 

Assets: | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 160 
Accounts receivable | 1,103 | 
Inventories | 217 | 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets | 357 | 
Prepaid expenses and other assets, non-current | 290 | 
Property and equipment, net | 542 | 
Intangible assets, net | 985 | 
Goodwill | 43 | 
Total assets | $ | 3,697
Liabilities: | 
Accounts payable | $ | 1,238
Accrued compensation and benefits | 163 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 10 | 
Deferred revenue, current | 165 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 250 | 
Total liabilities | $ | 1,826

Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies
Operating Leases
We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, facilities, land, and data centers throughout the world with original lease periods expiring primarily between 2017 and 2063. We are committed to pay a portion of the actual operating expenses under certain of these lease agreements. These 
68


Alphabet Inc.

operating expenses are not included in the table below. Certain of these arrangements have free or escalating rent payment provisions. We recognize rent expense under such arrangements on a straight-line basis.
As of December 31, 2016, future minimum payments under non-cancelable operating leases, net of sublease income amounts, were as follows over each of the next five years and thereafter (in millions):

 | OperatingLeases | | Sub-leaseIncome | | NetOperatingLeases
2017 | 843 | | | 15 | | | 828 
2018 | 902 | | | 6 | | | 896 
2019 | 910 | | | 5 | | | 905 
2020 | 854 | | | 4 | | | 850 
2021 | 767 | | | 2 | | | 765 
Thereafter | 3,694 | | | 1 | | | 3,693
Total minimum payments | $ | 7,970 | | | $ | 33 | | $ | 7,937

Certain leases have adjustments for market provisions. Amounts in the above table represent our best estimates of future payments to be made under these leases. 
We have entered into certain non-cancelable lease agreements with original lease periods expiring between 2021 and 2035 where we are the deemed owner for accounting purposes of new construction projects. Excluded from the table above are future minimum lease payments under such leases totaling approximately $1.4 billion, for which a $940 million liability is included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2016.
Rent expense under operating leases was $570 million, $734 million, and $897 million in 2014, 2015, and 2016, respectively.
Purchase Obligations
As of December 31, 2016, we had $2.5 billion of other non-cancelable contractual obligations, primarily related to data center operations and facility build-outs, video and other content licensing revenue sharing arrangements, as well as certain inventory purchase commitments.
Letters of Credit
As of December 31, 2016, we had unused letters of credit for $797 million.
Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, to facilitate transactions in our services and products, we indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network Members, and lessors with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.
It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, we have a limited history of prior indemnification claims and the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 
As of December 31, 2016, we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible. As part of the sale of Motorola Mobile, we issued indemnifications for certain potential liabilities. Please see Note 9 for additional information.
Legal Matters
Antitrust Investigations
On November 30, 2010, the European Commission's (EC) Directorate General for Competition opened an investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against us. On April 15, 2015, the EC issued a Statement of 
69


Alphabet Inc.

Objections (SO) regarding the display and ranking of shopping search results, to which we responded on August 27, 2015. On April 20, 2016, the EC issued an SO regarding certain Android distribution practices. On July 14, 2016, the EC issued a Supplementary SO regarding shopping search results and an SO regarding the syndication of AdSense for Search. We have responded to the SOs and Supplementary SO and continue to respond to the EC's informational requests. We remain committed to working with the EC to resolve these matters.
The Comision Nacional de Defensa de la Competencia in Argentina, the Competition Commission of India (CCI), Brazil's Council for Economic Defense (CADE), the Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS) of the Russian Federation, and the Korean Fair Trade Commission have also opened investigations into certain of our business practices. In November 2016, we responded to the CCI Director General's report with interim findings of competition law infringements regarding search and ads. In September 2015, FAS found that there has been a competition law infringement in Android mobile distribution. The appeal against that decision has so far been rejected, so Google has implemented the ruling to the degree possible and is working on product changes to finalize implementation. The appeals process continues. In April 2016, the Canadian Competition Bureau informed us that it was closing its antitrust investigations of our business practices.
Patent and Intellectual Property Claims
We have had patent, copyright, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices, and require development of non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. In addition, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) has increasingly become an important forum to litigate intellectual property disputes because an ultimate loss for a company or its suppliers in an ITC action could result in a prohibition on importing infringing products into the U.S. Because the U.S. is an important market, a prohibition on importation could have an adverse effect on us, including preventing us from importing many important products into the U.S. or necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features of our products.
Furthermore, many of our agreements with our customers and partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Our customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business.
Oracle America, Inc. (Oracle) brought a copyright lawsuit against Google in the Northern District of California, alleging that Google's Android infringes Oracle's copyrights related to certain Java application programming interfaces. After trial, final judgment was entered by the district court in favor of Google on June 8, 2016, and the court decided post-trial motions in favor of Google. Oracle has filed a notice of appeal. We believe this lawsuit is without merit and are defending ourselves vigorously. Given the nature of this case, we are unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, if any, arising from this matter.
Other
We are also regularly subject to claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition (such as the pending EC investigations described above), intellectual property, privacy, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. Such claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings could result in fines, civil or criminal penalties, or other adverse consequences.
Certain of our outstanding legal matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss. We evaluate, on a monthly basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both likelihood of there being and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters.
With respect to our outstanding legal matters, based on our current knowledge, we believe that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on 
70


Alphabet Inc.

our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, the outcome of such legal matters is inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties.
We expense legal fees in the period in which they are incurred.
Indirect Taxes
We are under audit by various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to indirect tax matters. The subject matter of indirect tax audits primarily arises from disputes on the tax treatment and tax rate applied to the sale of our products and services in these jurisdictions. We accrue indirect taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. For certain matters, while the loss is reasonably possible, the loss or range of loss cannot be estimated. We believe these matters are without merit and are defending ourselves vigorously. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and judicial process in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome may be materially different from our expectations.
For information regarding income tax contingencies, see Note 14.
Note 11. Net Income Per Share
We compute net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and the effect of potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist of stock options, restricted stock units, and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect of outstanding stock options, restricted stock units, and other contingently issuable shares is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. The computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A common stock assumes the conversion of Class B common stock, while the diluted net income per share of Class B common stock does not assume the conversion of those shares.
The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, of the holders of our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Further, there are a number of safeguards built into our certificate of incorporation, as well as Delaware law, which preclude our board of directors from declaring or paying unequal per share dividends on our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments to our certificate of incorporation which would have the effect of adversely altering the rights, powers, or preferences of a given class of stock must be approved by the class of stock adversely affected by the proposed amendment. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that before any such amendment may be put to a stockholder vote, it must be approved by the unanimous consent of our board of directors. As a result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based on the contractual participation rights of the Class A and Class B common shares and Class C capital stock as if the earnings for the year had been distributed. As the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated on a proportionate basis. The net income per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock because the holders of each class are legally entitled to equal per share distributions whether through dividends or in liquidation. Further, as we assume the conversion of Class B common stock in the computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A common stock, the undistributed earnings are equal to net income for that computation.
In the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2016, the net income per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock because the holders of each class are entitled to equal per share dividends or distributions in liquidation in accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Alphabet Inc.
In the year ended December 31, 2015, the Class C Adjustment Payment was allocated to the numerator for calculating net income per share of Class C capital stock from net income available to all stockholders and the remaining undistributed earnings were allocated on a pro rata basis to Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock based on the number of shares used in the per share computation for each class of stock. The weighted-average share impact of the Class C Adjustment Payment is included in the denominator of both basic and diluted net income per share computations for the year ended December 31, 2015. 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock (in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts):
71


Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - continuing operations | $ | 5,700 | | | $ | 1,107 | | $ | 6,813
Allocation of undistributed earnings - discontinued operations | 216 | | | 42 | | | 258 
Total | $ | 5,916 | | | $ | 1,149 | | $ | 7,071
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 282,877 | | | 54,928 | | | 338,130
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 20.15 | | | $ | 20.15 | | $ | 20.15
Discontinued operations | 0.76 | | | 0.76 | | | 0.76 
Basic net income per share | $ | 20.91 | | | $ | 20.91 | | $ | 20.91
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation - continuing operations | $ | 5,700 | | | $ | 1,107 | | $ | 6,813
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 1,107 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (20 | ) | | (18 | ) | | 20 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - continuing operations | $ | 6,787 | | | $ | 1,089 | | $ | 6,833
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation - discontinued operations | 216 | | | 42 | | | 258 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 42 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (1 | ) | | (1 | ) | | 1 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - discontinued operations | $ | 257 | | | $ | 41 | | $ | 259 
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 282,877 | | | 54,928 | | | 338,130
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 54,928 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 4,572 | | | 0 | | | 6,563 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 342,377 | | | 54,928 | | | 344,693
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.82 | | | $ | 19.82 | | $ | 19.82
Discontinued operations | 0.75 | | | 0.75 | | | 0.75 
Diluted net income per share | $ | 20.57 | | | $ | 20.57 | | $ | 20.57

72


Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 522 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 6,695 | | | $ | 1,196 | | $ | 7,935
Total | $ | 6,695 | | | $ | 1,196 | | $ | 8,457
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 289,640 | | | 51,745 | | | 343,241
Basic net income per share | $ | 23.11 | | | $ | 23.11 | | $ | 24.63
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 522 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 6,695 | | | $ | 1,196 | | $ | 7,935
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 1,196 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (39 | ) | | (14 | ) | | 39 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | $ | 7,852 | | | $ | 1,182 | | $ | 7,974
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 289,640 | | | 51,745 | | | 343,241
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 51,745 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 2,395 | | | 0 | | | 5,909 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 343,780 | | | 51,745 | | | 349,150
Diluted net income per share | $ | 22.84 | | | $ | 22.84 | | $ | 24.34

73


Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2016 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | 8,332 | | | 1,384 | | | 9,762 | 
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 294,217 | | | 48,859 | | | 344,702 | 
Basic net income per share | $ | 28.32 | | | $ | 28.32 | | | $ | 28.32
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation | $ | 8,332 | | | $ | 1,384 | | | $ | 9,762
Effect of dilutive securities in equity method investments and subsidiaries | (9 | ) | | (2 | ) | | (10 | )
Allocation of undistributed earnings for diluted computation | 8,323 | | | 1,382 | | | 9,752 | 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 1,382 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (94 | ) | | (21 | ) | | 94 | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings | 9,611 | | | 1,361 | | | 9,846 | 
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 294,217 | | | 48,859 | | | 344,702 | 
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 48,859 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 2,055 | | | 0 | | | 8,873 | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 345,131 | | | 48,859 | | | 353,575 | 
Diluted net income per share | $ | 27.85 | | | $ | 27.85 | | | $ | 27.85

Note 12. Stockholders’ Equity
Convertible Preferred Stock
Our board of directors has authorized 100 million shares of convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2015 and 2016, there were no shares issued or outstanding.
Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock
Our board of directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock.
Stock Plans
Under our 2012 Stock Plan, RSUs or stock options may be granted. An RSU award is an agreement to issue shares of our publicly traded stock at the time the award vests. Incentive and non-qualified stock options, or rights to purchase common stock, are generally granted for a term of 10 years. Options and RSUs granted to participants under the 2012 Stock Plan generally vest over four years contingent upon employment or service with us on the vesting date.
As of December 31, 2016, there were 26,206,647 shares of stock reserved for future issuance under our Stock Plan.
74


Alphabet Inc.

Stock-Based Compensation
The following table presents our aggregate stock-based compensation expense by type of costs and expenses per the Consolidated Statements of Income (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Cost of revenues | $ | 535 | | | $ | 806 | | $ | 1,157
Research and development | 2,200 | | | 2,687 | | | 3,354
Sales and marketing | 715 | | | 899 | | | 1,078
General and administrative | 725 | | | 861 | | | 1,282
Discontinued operations | 104 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Total stock-based compensation expense | $ | 4,279 | | | $ | 5,253 | | $ | 6,871

For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016, we recognized tax benefits on total stock-based compensation expense from continuing operations of $867 million, $1,133 million, and $1,465 million, respectively, and from discontinued operations of $30 million, $0 million and $0 million, respectively. In addition, as a result of the Tax Court ruling in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, we have recorded a tax benefit of $522 million and $690 million related to 2015 and 2016 stock-based compensation expense, respectively, that will be subject to reimbursement of cost share payments if the tax court's opinion is sustained. Refer to Note 14 for more detail regarding the Altera case.
Total direct tax benefit realized, including excess tax benefits, from stock-based awards vested or exercised during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016, was $1,356 million, $1,544 million, and $2,137 million, respectively. These amounts do not include the indirect effects of stock-based awards, which primarily relate to the research and development tax credit.
Of the total stock-based compensation expense from continuing operations recognized in the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016, $0 million, $50 million, and $168 million, respectively, was associated with awards expected to be ultimately settled in cash. Awards which we expect to be ultimately settled in cash are classified as liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Beginning January 1, 2016, we account for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. The net cumulative effect of this change was recognized as a $133 million reduction to retained earnings as of January 1, 2016.
Stock-Based Award Activities
The following table summarizes the activities for our unvested restricted stock units (RSUs) for the year ended December 31, 2016:

 | Unvested Restricted Stock Units
 | Number of Shares | | Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Value
Unvested as of December 31, 2015 | 25,741,186 | | | $ | 531.74
Granted | 13,502,900 | | | $ | 713.89
Vested | (12,002,071 | ) | | $ | 532.87
Forfeited/canceled | (1,893,060 | ) | | $ | 562.03
Unvested as of December 31, 2016 | 25,348,955 | | | $ | 624.92

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2015, was $573.71 and $546.46, respectively. Total fair value as of the respective vesting dates of RSUs vested during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015 and 2016 was $6.0 billion, $6.9 billion, and $9.0 billion, respectively.
As of December 31, 2016, there was $14.6 billion of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested employee RSUs. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.7 years. 
As of December 31, 2016, we had 3.3 million stock options outstanding and exercisable, and $2 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, 
75


Alphabet Inc.

and 2016, the amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options was $465 million, $393 million, and $298 million, respectively. 
Share Repurchases
In October 2015, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $5,099,019,513.59 of its Class C capital stock, commencing in the fourth quarter of 2015. In January 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase an additional amount of approximately 514 thousand shares. The repurchases were executed, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through the use of 10b5-1 plans. During 2016, we repurchased and subsequently retired approximately 5.2 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of approximately $3.7 billion. We completed all authorized share repurchases under this repurchase program as of June 30, 2016. 
In October 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $7,019,340,976.83 of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are expected to be executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. No shares were repurchased in 2016 under this program.
Note 13. 401(k) Plans
We have two 401(k) Savings Plans (401(k) Plans) that qualify as deferred salary arrangements under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under these 401(k) Plans, matching contributions are based upon the amount of the employees’ contributions subject to certain limitations. We contributed approximately $259 million, $309 million, and $385 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016.
Note 14. Income Taxes
Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $8,894 million, $8,271 million, and $12,020 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016, and income from foreign operations of $8,365 million, $11,380 million, and $12,130 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016. 
The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Current: | | | | | 
Federal | $ | 2,716 | | | $ | 3,235 | | | $ | 3,520
State | 157 | | | (397 | ) | | 306 | 
Foreign | 774 | | | 723 | | | 966 | 
Total | 3,647 | | | 3,561 | | | 4,792 | 
Deferred: | | | | | 
Federal | 29 | | | (198 | ) | | (70 | )
State | 6 | | | (43 | ) | | 0 | 
Foreign | (43 | ) | | (17 | ) | | (50 | )
Total | (8 | ) | | (258 | ) | | (120 | )
Provision for income taxes | $ | 3,639 | | | $ | 3,303 | | | $ | 4,672

76


Alphabet Inc.

The reconciliation of federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate is as follows:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
U.S. federal statutory tax rate | 35.0 | % | | 35.0 | % | 35.0 | % 
Foreign rate differential | (12.2 | )% | | (13.4 | )% | (11.0 | )%
Federal research credit | (1.8 | )% | | (2.1 | )% | (2.0 | )%
Stock-based compensation expense | 0.1 | % | | 0.3 | % | (3.4 | )%
Other adjustments | 0.0 | % | | (3.0 | )% | 0.7 | % 
Effective tax rate | 21.1 | % | | 16.8 | % | 19.3 | % 

We adopted ASU 2016-09 on January 1, 2016, which requires the excess tax benefits or deficiencies to be reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of the provision for income taxes whereas they previously were recognized in equity. Total excess tax benefits recognized in 2016 was $1.0 billion.
Our effective tax rate is impacted by earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions with statutory tax rates lower than the federal statutory tax rate. Substantially all of the income from foreign operations was earned by an Irish subsidiary.
As of December 31, 2016, we have not recognized deferred U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on a cumulative total of $60.7 billion of undistributed earnings and other basis differences in our foreign subsidiaries. We intend to indefinitely reinvest those earnings and other basis differences in operations outside the U.S. If such earnings and other basis differences in our investment foreign subsidiaries were to be repatriated in the future, they would be subject to U.S. income taxes and applicable non-U.S. income and withholding taxes. Determining the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to such investments in foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely reinvested is not practicable.
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court, in an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, invalidated the portion of the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section 482 requiring related-party participants in a cost sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. The U.S. Tax Court issued the final decision on December 28, 2015. The IRS served a Notice of Appeal on February 22, 2016. At this time, the U.S. Treasury has not withdrawn the requirement to include stock-based compensation from its regulations. We have evaluated the opinion and continue to record a tax benefit in 2016 related to reimbursement of cost share payments for the previously shared stock-based compensation costs. In addition, we continue to record a tax liability for the U.S. tax cost of potential repatriation of the associated contingent foreign earnings because at this time we cannot reasonably conclude that the Company has the ability and the intent to indefinitely reinvest these contingent earnings. The net impact to our consolidated financial statements is not material. We will continue to monitor developments related to the case and the potential impact on our consolidated financial statements.
77


Alphabet Inc.

Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31,
 | 2015 | | 2016
Deferred tax assets: | | | 
Stock-based compensation expense | $ | 534 | | | $ | 574
Accrued employee benefits | 832 | | | 939 | 
Accruals and reserves not currently deductible | 245 | | | 500 | 
Tax credits | 503 | | | 631 | 
Basis difference in investment of Arris | 1,357 | | | 1,327 | 
Prepaid cost sharing | 3,468 | | | 4,409 | 
Other | 931 | | | 926 | 
Total deferred tax assets | 7,870 | | | 9,306 | 
Valuation allowance | (1,732 | ) | | (2,076 | )
Total deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance | 6,138 | | | 7,230 | 
Deferred tax liabilities: | | | 
Depreciation and amortization | (1,126 | ) | | (877 | )
Identified intangibles | (787 | ) | | (844 | )
Renewable energy investments | (529 | ) | | (788 | )
Foreign earnings | (3,468 | ) | | (4,409 | )
Other | (166 | ) | | (155 | )
Total deferred tax liabilities | (6,076 | ) | | (7,073 | )
Net deferred tax assets | $ | 62 | | | $ | 157

As of December 31, 2016, our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $592 million and $681 million. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2021 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2017. It is more likely than not that our state net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized; therefore, we have recorded a valuation allowance against them. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various annual limitations under the tax laws of the different jurisdictions. Our foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were $304 million that will begin to expire in 2022.
As of December 31, 2016, our California research and development credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $1,515 million that can be carried over indefinitely. We believe the state tax credit is not likely to be realized. Our foreign tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $166 million that will start to expire in 2025. We believe it is more likely than not that all of the foreign tax credit will be realized.
As of December 31, 2016, we maintained a valuation allowance with respect to certain of our deferred tax assets relating primarily to investment losses that are capital in nature, California deferred tax assets, and certain foreign net operating losses that we believe are not likely to be realized. We established a deferred tax asset for the book-to-tax basis difference in our investments in Arris shares received from the sale of the Motorola Home business to Arris in 2013. Since any future losses to be recognized upon the sale of Arris shares will be capital losses, a valuation allowance has been recorded against this deferred tax asset to the extent such deferred tax asset is not likely to be covered by capital gains generated as of 2016. We reassess the valuation allowance quarterly and if future evidence allows for a partial or full release of the valuation allowance, a tax benefit will be recorded accordingly.
As a result of the Altera opinion, we have recognized a deferred tax asset of $4.4 billion and a deferred tax liability of $4.4 billion. Refer to above for more details on the Altera case. 
78


Alphabet Inc.

Uncertain Tax Positions
The following table summarizes the activity related to our gross unrecognized tax benefits from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2016 (in millions):

 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Beginning gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 2,502 | | | $ | 3,294 | | | $ | 4,167
Increases related to prior year tax positions | 66 | | | 224 | | | 899 | 
Decreases related to prior year tax positions | (44 | ) | | (176 | ) | | (157 | )
Decreases related to settlement with tax authorities | (1 | ) | | (27 | ) | | (196 | )
Increases related to current year tax positions | 771 | | | 852 | | | 680 | 
Ending gross unrecognized tax benefits | $ | 3,294 | | | $ | 4,167 | | | $ | 5,393

The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $3,294 million, $4,167 million, and $5,393 million as of December 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016, respectively, of which, $2,909 million, $3,614 million, and $4,258 million if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate.
As of December 31, 2015 and 2016, we had accrued $348 million and $493 million in interest and penalties in provision for income taxes.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions, our two major tax jurisdictions are the U.S. federal and Ireland. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS completed its examination through our 2006 tax years; all issues have been concluded except for one which is currently under review in Tax Court. The IRS is currently examining our 2007 through 2012 tax returns. We have also received tax assessments in multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. We continue to defend any and all such claims as presented.
Our 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016 tax years remain subject to examination by the IRS for U.S. federal tax purposes, and our 2011 through 2015 tax years remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits in various other jurisdictions that are not material to our financial statements.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
We believe that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management's expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Although the timing of resolution, settlement, closure of audits is not certain, it is reasonably possible that certain U.S. federal and non-U.S. tax audits may be concluded within the next 12 months, which could significantly increase or decrease the balance of our gross unrecognized tax benefits.
We estimate that our unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2016 could possibly decrease by approximately $200 million to $700 million in the next 12 months. Positions that may be resolved include various U.S. and non-U.S. matters.
Note 15. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas
We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed below as Other Bets.
Our reported segments are described below:

• | Google – Google includes our main internet products such as Search, Ads, Commerce, Maps, YouTube, Google Cloud, Android, Chrome, and Google Play as well as our hardware initiatives. Our technical infrastructure and some newer efforts like virtual reality are also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising, sales of digital content, apps and cloud offerings, and sales of hardware products.


• | Other Bets – Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Nest, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Google Fiber, sales of Nest products and services, and licensing and R&D services through Verily.

79


Alphabet Inc.

Revenue, cost of revenue, and operating expenses are generally directly attributed to our segments. Inter-segment revenues are not presented separately, as these amounts are immaterial. Our Chief Operating Decision Maker does not evaluate operating segments using asset information. Prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the current period segment presentation.
Information about segments during the periods presented were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Revenues: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 65,674 | | | $ | 74,544 | | $ | 89,463
Other Bets | 327 | | | 445 | | | 809
Total revenues | $ | 66,001 | | | $ | 74,989 | | $ | 90,272


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Operating income (loss): | | | | | 
Google | $ | 18,965 | | | $ | 23,319 | | | $ | 27,892
Other Bets | (1,893 | ) | | (3,456 | ) | | (3,578 | )
Reconciling items(1) | (576 | ) | | (503 | ) | | (598 | )
Total income from operations | $ | 16,496 | | | $ | 19,360 | | | $ | 23,716


(1) | Reconciling items are primarily related to corporate administrative costs and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Capital expenditures: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 11,178 | | | $ | 8,868 | | | $ | 9,417 
Other Bets | 496 | | | 850 | | | 1,385 | 
Reconciling items(2) | (660 | ) | | 232 | | | (590 | )
Total capital expenditures as presented on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | $ | 11,014 | | | $ | 9,950 | | | $ | 10,212


(2) | Reconciling items are related to timing differences of payments as segment capital expenditures are on accrual basis while total capital expenditures shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow are on cash basis and other miscellaneous differences. For the year ended December 31, 2014, reconciling items included capital expenditures of Motorola Mobile. 

80


Alphabet Inc.

Stock-based compensation (SBC) and depreciation, amortization, and impairment are included in segment operating income (loss) as below (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Stock-based compensation: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 3,686 | | | $ | 4,610 | | $ | 5,926
Other Bets | 338 | | | 475 | | | 647
Reconciling items(3) | 151 | | | 118 | | | 130
Total stock-based compensation(4) | $ | 4,175 | | | $ | 5,203 | | $ | 6,703
Depreciation, amortization, and impairment: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 4,779 | | | $ | 4,839 | | $ | 5,800
Other Bets | 147 | | | 203 | | | 340
Reconciling items(5) | 53 | | | 21 | | | 4 
Total depreciation, amortization, and impairment as presented on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | $ | 4,979 | | | $ | 5,063 | | $ | 6,144


(3) | Reconciling items represent corporate administrative costs that are not allocated to individual segments.


(4) | For purposes of segment reporting, we define SBC as awards accounted for under FASB ASC Topic 718 that we expect to settle in stock. SBC for segment reporting does not include expenses related to awards that we expect to ultimately settle in cash. For the year ended December 31, 2014, amounts exclude SBC from discontinued operations.


(5) | Reconciling items are primarily related to corporate administrative costs and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments. For the year ended December 31, 2014, reconciling items primarily represent depreciation, amortization and impairment related to Motorola Mobile. 

Revenues by geography are based on the billing addresses of our customers. The following tables set forth revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015 | | 2016
Revenues: | | | | | 
United States | $ | 29,482 | | | $ | 34,810 | | $ | 42,781
United Kingdom | 6,483 | | | 7,067 | | | 7,787 
Rest of the world | 30,036 | | | 33,112 | | | 39,704
Total revenues | $ | 66,001 | | | $ | 74,989 | | $ | 90,272


 | As of December 31, 2015 | | As ofDecember 31, 2016
Long-lived assets: | | | 
United States | $ | 43,686 | | | $ | 47,383
International | 13,661 | | | 14,706 | 
Total long-lived assets | $ | 57,347 | | | $ | 62,089

Note 16. Subsequent Event
In January 2017, Temasek, a Singapore-based investment company, signed a binding commitment to purchase a non-controlling interest in Verily for an aggregate of $800 million in cash. We closed the first tranche of the investment in February 2017 and anticipate closing the second and final tranche upon completion of certain terms in the second half of 2017. The transaction will be accounted for as an equity transaction with no gain or loss recognized.
81


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 9. | CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A. | CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2016, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed at a reasonable assurance level and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2016. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with our Audit Committee. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs.

ITEM 9B. | OTHER INFORMATION

None.
82


Alphabet Inc.

PART III

ITEM 10. | DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement for 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 (2017 Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the 2017 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. | EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the 2017 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. | SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in 2017 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. | CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Director Independence” in the 2017 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. | PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in the 2017 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
83


Alphabet Inc.

PART IV

ITEM 15. | EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)We have filed the following documents as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
1. Consolidated Financial Statements

Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 40
Financial Statements: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 42
Consolidated Statements of Income | 43
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 44
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 45
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 46
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 47

2. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
The table below details the activity of the allowance for doubtful accounts and sales credits for the three years ended December 31, 2016 (in millions):

 | Balance atBeginning ofYear | | Additions | Usage | | Balance atEnd of Year
 | (In millions) 
Year ended December 31, 2014 | $ | 631 | | $ | 1,240 | | $ | (1,646 | ) | $ | 225
Year ended December 31, 2015 | $ | 225 | | $ | 579 | | $ | (508 | ) | $ | 296
Year ended December 31, 2016 | $ | 296 | | $ | 942 | | $ | (771 | ) | $ | 467


Note: | Additions to the allowance for doubtful accounts are charged to expense. Additions to the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2014, additions included the impact from the Motorola acquisition and usage included the impact from the sale of Motorola Mobile business.

All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or the required information is otherwise included.
3. Exhibits
See the Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
84


Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 1. | BUSINESS

Overview
As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." As part of that, they also explained that you could expect us to make "smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses." From the start, the company has always strived to do more, and to do important and meaningful things with the resources we have.
To help accelerate this, we announced plans in August 2015 to create a new public holding company, called Alphabet. Alphabet is a collection of businesses -- the largest of which, of course, is Google. It also includes businesses that we combine as Other Bets and generally are pretty far afield of our main Internet products such as Verily, Calico, X, Nest, GV, Google Capital and Access/Google Fiber. Our Alphabet structure is about helping businesses within Alphabet prosper through strong leaders and independence. 
At Google, our innovations in search and advertising have made our website widely used and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. We generate revenues primarily by delivering online advertising that consumers find relevant and that advertisers find cost-effective. Google's core products such as Search, Android, Maps, Chrome, YouTube, Google Play and Gmail each have over one billion monthly active users. And we believe we are just beginning to scratch the surface. Google's vision is to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation that uses our technical expertise to tackle big problems. Our Other Bets are also making important strides in their industries, and our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the long term.
Serving Our Users 
In many ways Google search -- and the clean white page with the blinking cursor -- is a metaphor for how we think about innovation. Imagining the ways things could be -- without constraint -- is the process we use to look for better answers to some of life's everyday problems. It's about starting with the "What if?" and then working relentlessly to see if we can find the answer.
It's been that way from the beginning; providing ways to access knowledge and information has been core to Google and our products have come a long way in the last decade. We used to show just ten blue links in our results. You had to click through to different websites to get your answers, which took time. Now we are increasingly able to provide direct answers -- even if you're speaking your question using Voice Search -- which makes it quicker, easier and more natural to find what you're looking for.
Over time, we have added other services that let you access information quickly and easily. What if we could develop a smarter email service with plenty of storage? That's Gmail. What if we could make a simpler, speedier, safer browser? That's Chrome. What if we could provide easy access to movies, books, music and apps, no matter which device you're on? That's Google Play. What if developers could use Google's infrastructure to easily build and scale applications? And what if people could collaborate and get work done from anywhere on any device? That's cloud and apps.
As devices proliferate, it's more and more important to ensure that you can navigate effortlessly across them -- that the technology gets out of the way, so you can move through this multi-screen world as easily as possible. It's why we're investing so much in platforms like our Chrome browser, Chrome OS and our Android mobile operating system. Ultimately, we want you to have speedy, secure access to whatever you need, wherever you happen to be, and on whatever device you may be using at the time.
Ads as Answers
We asked, what if ads weren't intrusive and annoying? What if we could deliver a relevant ad at just the right time and give people useful commercial information? What if we could provide products that allow for better attribution and measurement across screens so that we show great ads for the right people?
Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses, and we offer a wide range of products across screens and devices. We generate revenues primarily by delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising.

• | Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Most of our performance advertisers pay us when a user engages in their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results.

2


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

For performance advertisers, AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising program, helps create simple text-based ads that appear on Google websites and the websites of Google Network Members, who use our advertising programs to deliver relevant ads alongside their search results and content. In addition, our partners that comprise the Google Network use our AdSense program to deliver relevant ads that generate revenues and enhance the user experience. These programs let both small and large businesses connect with users looking for a specific item, say a pair of shoes or a plane ticket back home. To that end, we continue to invest in our advertising programs and to make significant upgrades, including Estimated Total Conversions, which help advertisers measure the effectiveness of their campaigns in a multi-screen world.

• | Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns and in turn, generate revenue by distributing their ads such as the TrueView ads displayed on our YouTube videos.

We have built a world-class ad technology platform for brand advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. We also seek to improve the measurability of the effectiveness of brand advertising.
Furthermore, we have invested significantly in programmatic advertising to help advertisers reach users when and where it matters, giving them access to top-tier inventory across screens and formats, as well as the real-time insights that advertisers need to make their buys count.
We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, ranging from removing hundreds of millions of bad ads from our systems every year to closely monitoring the sites and apps that show our ads and blacklisting them when necessary to ensure that our ads do not fund bad content.
Bringing the Next 5 Billion Online
Fast search and high-quality ads matter only if you have access to the Internet. Right now, only a fraction of the seven billion people in the world are fortunate enough to be able to get online. That leaves out billions of people. With so much useful and life-changing information available today, it is unfortunate that such a significant portion of the world's population lacks even the most basic Internet connection.
Those people will be able to learn and start businesses, to grow and prosper in ways they simply could not without an Internet connection. Creating platforms for other people's success is a huge part of who we are. We want the world to join us online and to be greeted with the best possible experience once they get there. Connection is powerful; and we are working hard to make it a reality for everyone. The opportunities to improve lives on a grand scale are endless.
And there are people around the world whose lives we can improve every day by bringing information into their homes, into their schools, and into their pockets -- showing them just how powerful the simple idea of "getting online" can be.
At Google, we are helping people get online by tailoring hardware and software experiences that suit the needs of emerging markets, primarily through Android and Chrome. We're also making sure our core Google apps are fast and useful, especially for users in areas where speed, size and connectivity are central concerns.
Other Alphabet companies are pursuing initiatives with similar goals too. That's why we're investing in new projects, like Project Loon. We asked, what if we could use a network of balloons that could fly at the edge of space and provide connectivity in rural and remote areas? Loon has helped students in Brazil and farmers in New Zealand experience the power of an internet connection for the first time. And as the program expands, we hope to bring this to more and more people -- creating opportunities that simply did not exist before for millions of people, all around the world.
Moonshots
The idea of trying new things is reflected in some of our new, ambitious projects both within Google and Other Bets. Everything might not fit into a neat little box. We believe that is exactly how to stay relevant. Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android, and when we launched Chrome. But as those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices, and a safer, popular browser, respectively, we continue to look towards the future and continue to invest for the long-term.
3


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

We won't become complacent, relying solely on small tweaks as the years wear on. As we said in the 2004 Founders' IPO Letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in because they are the key to our long-term success. We won't stop asking "What if?" and then working hard to find the answer.
As explained in the letter from our CEO in August 2015, our Alphabet reorganization was implemented to better allow us to structure teams in ways that we believe will produce the fastest, most focused innovation possible for moonshot projects.
Research
We continue to invest in our existing products and services, including search and advertising, as well as developing new products and services through research and product development. We often release early-stage products. We then use data and user feedback to decide if and how to invest further in those products.
Our research and development expenses, which includes the vast majority of engineering and technical headcount responsible for research and development, as well as their associated costs, were $7.1 billion, $9.8 billion, and $12.3 billion in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively, which included stock-based compensation expense of $1.6 billion, $2.2 billion, and $2.7 billion, respectively. We expect to continue investing in hiring talented employees and building systems to develop new products and services and improve existing ones.
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from:

• | General purpose search engines and information services, such as Yahoo, Microsoft's Bing, Yandex, Baidu, Naver, WebCrawler, and MyWebSearch.


• | Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Kayak (travel queries), LinkedIn (job queries), WebMD (health queries), and Amazon and eBay (e-commerce). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google.


• | Social networks, such as Facebook and Twitter. Some users are increasingly relying on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines.


• | Other forms of advertising, such as television, radio, newspapers, magazines, billboards, and yellow pages. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline.


• | Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Criteo, AppNexus, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers with AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising program.


• | Other operating systems and mobile device companies.


• | Providers of online products and services that provide answers, information, and services. A number of our online products and services, including Gmail, YouTube, and Google Docs, compete directly with new and established companies, which offer communication, information, storage and entertainment services, either on a stand-alone basis or integrated into other offerings.

Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to rapidly deliver innovative products and technologies to the marketplace so that we can attract and retain:

• | Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, primarily on the basis of the relevance and usefulness of our search results and the features, availability, and ease of use of our products and services.


• | Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels.


• | Content providers (Google Network Members, the parties who use our advertising programs to deliver relevant ads alongside their search results and content, as well as other content providers for whom we distribute or license content), primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.

Intellectual Property
We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign 
4


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties.
Culture and Employees
We take great pride in our culture. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex technical challenges. Transparency and open dialogue are central to how we work, and we like to ensure that company news reaches our employees first through internal channels.
Despite our rapid growth, we still cherish our roots as a startup and wherever possible empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their role or function within the company. We strive to hire great employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as those of our global users. We work to provide an environment where these talented people can have fulfilling careers addressing some of the biggest challenges in technology and society.
Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue investing in hiring talented employees and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees. As of December 31, 2015, we had 61,814 full-time employees: 23,336 in research and development, 19,082 in sales and marketing, 10,944 in operations, and 8,452 in general and administrative functions. Although we have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our U.S. employees are not represented by a labor union. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff.
Seasonality
Our business is affected by both seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year.
Information about Segments and Geographic Areas
Please refer to Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Other Matters
As part of the Alphabet reorganization, we expect to convert Google Inc. into a limited liability company.
Available Information
Our websites are located at www.google.com and www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can get information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
5


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


ITEM 1A. | RISK FACTORS

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock.
Risks Related to Our Businesses and Industries
We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. 
Our businesses are rapidly evolving, intensely competitive, and subject to changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to deliver innovative products and technologies to the marketplace rapidly and, for Google, provide products and services that make our search results and ads relevant and useful for our users. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services, including products and services that may be outside of our historical core business.
We have many competitors in different industries, including general purpose search engines and information services, vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, social networks, providers of online products and services, other forms of advertising and online advertising platforms and networks, other operating systems, and wireless mobile device companies. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Established companies have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users, and they can use their experiences and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in research and development, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete aggressively for advertisers and websites. Emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the consumer need for products and services before us.
Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in search, online advertising, wireless mobile devices, operating systems, and many other web-based products and services. The research and development of new, technologically advanced products is also a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as well as the accurate anticipation of technology, market trends, and consumer needs. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our search technology and our existing products and services, and introduce new products and services that people can easily and effectively use. If we are unable to provide quality products and services, then acceptance rates for our products and services could decline. In addition, these new products and services may present new and difficult technological and legal challenges, and we may be subject to claims if users of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other issues. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, and Google Network Members, are not appropriately timed with market opportunities, or are not effectively brought to market. As technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer user experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, and content providers, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected.
Our ongoing investment in new businesses and new products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our ongoing businesses.
We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including insufficient revenues from such investments to offset any new liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments, distraction of management from current operations, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and offerings that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
6


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

More people are using devices other than desktop computers to access the Internet and accessing new devices to make search queries. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our search technology, products, or operating systems developed for these devices, our business could be adversely affected. 
The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than desktop computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, handheld computers such as netbooks and tablets, video game consoles, and television set-top devices, is increasing dramatically. The functionality and user experience associated with some alternative devices may make the use of our products and services through such devices more difficult (or just different) and the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compelling to users, manufacturers, or distributors of alternative devices. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via “apps” tailored to particular devices or social media platforms, which could affect our search and advertising business over time. As new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of products and services across multiple platforms and devices. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers, distributors, developers, and users to our products and services, or if we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with alternative devices and platforms, we will fail to capture the opportunities available as consumers and advertisers transition to a dynamic, multi-screen environment.
We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending by advertisers or a loss of partners could seriously harm our business.
We generated 90% of total Google segment revenues from advertising in 2015. Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content partners can terminate their contracts with us at any time. Those partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. If we do not provide superior value or deliver advertisements efficiently and competitively, we could see a decrease in revenue and other adverse impacts to our business. Adverse macroeconomic conditions can also have a material negative impact on advertising revenues, which could adversely affect our revenues and business.
In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions can also have a material negative impact on the demand for advertising and cause our advertisers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising, which could adversely affect our revenues and business.
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future.
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including:

• | increasing competition,


• | changes in property mix, platform mix, and geographical mix


• | the challenges in maintaining our growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels,


• | the evolution of the online advertising market, including the increasing variety of online platforms for advertising, and the other markets in which we participate, and


• | the rate of user adoption of our products, services, and technologies.

We believe our margins could experience downward pressure as a result of increasing competition and increased costs for many aspects of our business. For instance, the margin on revenues we generate from our Google Network Members is significantly less than the margin on revenues we generate from advertising on Google websites. Consequently, our margins will experience downward pressure if a greater percentage of our revenues comes from ads placed on our Google Network Members' websites compared to revenues generated through ads placed on Google websites. Additionally, the margin we earn on revenues generated from our Google Network Members could decrease in the future if we pay an even larger percentage of advertising fees to our Google Network Members.
Additionally, our margins could experience downward pressure because the margin on the sale of digital content and apps, advertising revenues from mobile devices and newer advertising formats are generally less than the margin on revenues we generate from advertising on our websites or traditional formats. Further, our margins could be impacted 
7


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

adversely if we spend a proportionately larger amount to promote or distribute certain products or if we invest more heavily in our R&D efforts across the Company (such as our Other Bets businesses) than we have historically.
We are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny that may negatively impact our business. 
The growth of our company and our expansion into a variety of new fields involves a variety of new regulatory issues, and we have experienced increased regulatory scrutiny as we have grown. For instance, several regulatory agencies have sought to review our search and other businesses on potential competition concerns. We continue to cooperate with the European Commission (EC) and other regulatory authorities around the world in investigations they are conducting with respect to our business and its impact on competition. Legislators and regulators may make legal and regulatory changes, or interpret and apply existing laws, in ways that make our products and services less useful to our users, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. These changes or increased costs could negatively impact our business and results of operations in material ways.
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. 
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. The sale of hardware products also exposes us to the risk of product liability and other litigation involving assertions about product defects, as well as health and safety, hazardous materials usage, and other environmental concerns. In addition, our businesses face intellectual property litigation, as further discussed later, that exposes us to the risk of exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell products and services.
Such claims, suits, and government investigations are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. These proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or product recalls or other field action, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations. 
Acquisitions are an important element of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. The process of integrating an acquired company, business, or technology has created, and will continue to create, unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include:

• | Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges.


• | Failure to successfully further develop the acquired business or technology.


• | Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company.


• | Integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions.


• | Transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms.


• | Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval, under competition laws which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or investment.


• | In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.

8


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


• | Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire.


• | Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, privacy issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities.


• | Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties.

Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.
Our acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or results. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions or investments may not materialize.
Our business depends on a strong brand, and failing to maintain and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, Google Network Members, and other partners. 
Our strong Google brand has significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands of both Google and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs of our users. Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues and product/technical performance failures. Further, if we fail to maintain and enhance equity in the Google brand, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a meaningful role in people’s everyday lives.
A variety of new and existing laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. 
We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may also impact our business. For example, current and new patent laws such as U.S. patent laws and European patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future.
Claims have been, or may be, threatened and filed against us under both U.S. and foreign laws for defamation, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, patent, copyright and trademark infringement, product liability, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted by our users, our products and services, or content generated by our users. Furthermore, many of these laws do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by a number of our new businesses, products, services and technologies. In addition, the applicability and scope of these laws, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain. For example, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and abroad.
In addition, other laws that could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business include, among others:

• | The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which has provisions that limit in the U.S., but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for caching or hosting, or for listing or linking to, third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. Any future legislation impacting these safe harbors may adversely impact us.


• | Court decisions such as the ‘right to be forgotten’ ruling issued by the European court, which allows individuals to demand that Google remove search results about them in certain instances, may limit the content we can show to our users.


• | Various U.S. and international laws that restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors.


• | Data protection laws passed by many states that require notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as California’s Information Practices Act.


• | Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country.

9


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

We face risks and costs overseas as our products and services are offered in international markets and may be subject to additional regulations. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.
We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property or other claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. 
Internet, technology, media, and other companies own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies may continue to seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. As we have grown, the intellectual property rights claims against us have increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies.
We have had patent, copyright, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell our products or services in the U.S. or elsewhere if our products or services or those of our customers or suppliers are found to infringe the intellectual property subject to the claims. Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices, and require development of non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business.
Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities. In addition, many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers from covered products.
Regardless of the merits of the claims, intellectual property claims are often time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and cause significant diversion of management attention. To the extent such intellectual property infringement claims are successful, they may have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brand. 
Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective.
Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable.
We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy could be compromised by outside parties, or by our employees, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets.
We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word “Google” could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word “search.” If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word “Google” to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand.
10


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results.
We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. 
We host and provide a wide variety of services and products that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities both domestically and internationally. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services and products for activities of their users is still somewhat unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally. Claims have been threatened and have been brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright or trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our users. In addition, we are and have been and may again in the future be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates U.S. and non-U.S. law.
We also arrange for the distribution of third-party advertisements to third-party publishers and advertising networks, and we offer third-party products, services, or content. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, or content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting, or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, provide, or provide access to these products, services, or content. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner.
Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and services. 
From time to time, concerns have been expressed about whether our products, services, or processes compromise the privacy of users and others. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results.
In addition, as nearly all of our products and services are web-based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers (including personal information) has been increasing. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our users’ data could seriously limit the adoption of our products and services, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of web-based products and services we offer, and operate in more countries.
Regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, including measures to ensure that our encryption of users’ data does not hinder law enforcement agencies’ access to that data. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.
Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of information from Europe to the U.S. A preliminary agreement has been reached between the U.S. and European governments to allow for legal certainty regarding transfers of data. However, given the preliminary nature of the agreement, some uncertainty remains, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.
If our security measures are breached, or if our services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, users and customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure. 
Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users’ and customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, and potential liability. We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, or otherwise. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our 
11


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

data or our users’ or customers’ data. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users and customers.
We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that, if not properly managed, could adversely impact our financial results and prospects. 
We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management. For instance, the products we sell may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers' expectations or our products are found to be defective, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted.
We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products, and we have third-party arrangements for the design of some components and parts. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage third parties with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them.
We have in the past, and may experience in the future, supply shortages and price increases driven by raw material availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, natural disasters and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. Workaround plans to address shortages could entail increased freight costs for expedited shipments. We may experience shortages or other supply chain disruptions in the future that could negatively impact our operations. In addition, some of the components we use in our products are available only from a single source or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms or at all in the event of a supply chain disruption.
Additionally, because many of our supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our hardware products more costly per unit to manufacture and therefore less competitive and negatively impact our financial results. Further, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may impact our supply.
We also require our suppliers and business partners to comply with law and company policies regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. If any of them violates laws or implements practices regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. If any of them fails to procure necessary license rights to third-party intellectual property, legal action could ensue that could impact the saleability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to third parties.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC) and procedures pertaining to a manufacturer's efforts regarding the source of such minerals. SEC rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply DRC “conflict free” components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain DRC conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. Since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the minerals used in our products.
Web spam and content farms could decrease our search quality, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. 
“Web spam” refers to websites that attempt to violate a search engine's quality guidelines or that otherwise seek to rank higher in search results than a search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them.
Although English-language web spam in our search results has been significantly reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek ways to improve their rankings inappropriately. We continuously combat web spam, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We face challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including “content farms”, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve 
12


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes focused on low-quality websites. If our search results display an increasing number of web spam and content farms, this could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information or reduce user traffic to our websites. In addition, as we continue to take actions to improve our search quality and reduce low-quality content, this may in the short run reduce our AdSense revenues, since some of these websites are AdSense partners.
Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results.
The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and to potential disruptions if the operators of certain of these facilities have financial difficulties. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility we are using, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and may contain errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in our services or the failure of our systems.
Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues in 2015. In certain international markets, we have limited operating experience and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed.
In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following:

• | Changes in local political, economic, regulatory, tax, social, and labor conditions, which may adversely harm our business.


• | Restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.


• | Import and export requirements, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers, and customs classifications that may prevent us from offering products or providing services to a particular market and may increase our operating costs.


• | Longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud.


• | Still developing foreign laws and legal systems.


• | Uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent.


• | Different employee/employer relationships, existence of workers' councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions.

In addition, compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include internal control and disclosure rules, privacy and data protection requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our international growth efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies.
13


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Finally, since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Additionally, hedging programs are inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations.
Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly, year-to-date, and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may differ significantly from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed in this section in addition to the following factors may affect our operating results:

• | Our ability to continue to attract users to our websites and retain existing users on our websites.


• | Our ability to monetize (or generate revenues from) traffic on Google websites and our Google Network Members' websites both on desktop and mobile devices.


• | Revenue fluctuations caused by changes in property mix, platform mix, and geographical mix.


• | The amount of revenues and expenses generated and incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and our ability to manage the resulting risk through our foreign exchange risk management program.


• | The amount and timing of operating costs and expenses and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure.


• | Our focus on long-term goals over short-term results.


• | The results of our acquisitions and our investments in risky projects, including new businesses, products, services, and technologies.


• | Our ability to keep our websites operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions.


• | Our ability to generate significant revenues from new products and services in which we have invested considerable time and resources.

Because our business is changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. In addition, advertising spending has historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Also, user traffic tends to be seasonal. Our rapid growth has tended to mask the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results to fluctuate.
If we were to lose the services of Larry, Sergey, Eric, Sundar, or other key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy.
Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, Larry Page and Sergey Brin are critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries, and they, along with Sundar Pichai, the Chief Executive Officer of Google, play an important role in the development of our technology. Along with our Executive Chairman Eric E. Schmidt, they also play a key role in maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could seriously harm our business.
We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively.
Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees.
14


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, particularly in light of our holding company reorganization and new operating structure, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success.
Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers.
Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures, including legal actions, that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. Such interference could result in a loss of existing users and advertisers, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users and advertisers, thereby harming our revenues and growth.
New technologies could block online ads, which would harm our Google business. 
Technologies have been developed that can block the display of our ads and that provide tools to users to opt out of our advertising products. Most of our Google revenues are derived from fees paid to us by advertisers in connection with the display of ads on web pages for our users. As a result, such technologies and tools could adversely affect our operating results.
We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investments. 
Given the global nature of our business, we have investments both domestically and internationally. Credit ratings and market values of these investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, foreign exchange rates, or other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.
We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. 
Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions on various tax-related assertions, including transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.
Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock 
The trading price for our Class A common stock and non-voting Class C capital stock may continue to be volatile.
The trading price of our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. For example, from January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015, the closing price of our Class A common stock ranged from $497.06 per share to $793.96 per share, and the closing price of our Class C capital stock ranged from $492.55 to $776.60 per share.
The trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others:

• | Quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors.

15


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


• | Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments.


• | Recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates.


• | Announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the risk of which is enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance on earnings.


• | Announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations.


• | Commentary by industry and market professionals about our products, strategies, and other matters affecting our business and results, regardless of its accuracy.


• | The volume of shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock available for public sale.


• | Sales of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock by us or by our stockholders (including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other employees).


• | Short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock.


• | The perceived values of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock relative to one another.


• | Our stock repurchase program.

In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock regardless of our actual operating performance.
We cannot guarantee that our recently announced stock repurchase program will be fully consummated or that our stock repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value, and stock repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our stock and could diminish our cash reserves. 
In October 2015, our board of directors authorized our company to repurchase up to $5,099,019,513.59 of our Class C capital stock and in January 2016, our board of directors authorized our Company to repurchase an additional amount of approximately 514 thousand shares. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. Although our board of directors has authorized a stock repurchase program, the share repurchase program does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. The stock repurchase program could affect the price of our stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock.
The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters.
Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A common stock has one vote per share, and our Class C capital stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2015, Larry, Sergey, and Eric beneficially owned approximately 92.5% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which represented approximately 58.5% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Larry, Sergey, and Eric therefore have significant influence over management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C capital stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could prolong the duration of Larry and Sergey’s current relative ownership of our voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Together with Eric, they would also continue to be able to control any required stockholder vote with respect to certain change in control transactions involving Alphabet (including an acquisition of Alphabet by another company).
This concentrated control limits or severely restricts our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock could be adversely affected.
Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.
Provisions in Alphabet’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:
16


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


• | Our certificate of incorporation provides for a tri-class capital stock structure. As a result of this structure, Larry, Sergey, and Eric have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, or other change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. As noted above, the issuance of the Class C capital stock could have the effect of prolonging the influence of Larry, Sergey, and Eric.


• | Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors.


• | Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting.


• | Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates.


• | Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company.


• | Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.

As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.
Risks Related to Our Holding Company Reorganization 
As a holding company, Alphabet will be dependent on the operations and funds of its subsidiaries.
On October 2, 2015, we completed a reorganization pursuant to which Alphabet became a holding company with no business operations of its own. Alphabet’s only significant assets are the outstanding equity interests in Google and any other future subsidiaries of Alphabet. As a result, we rely on cash flows from subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including to service any debt obligations of Alphabet.
We may not obtain the anticipated benefits of our reorganization into a holding company structure.
We believe that our holding company reorganization and a new operating structure will increase management scale and allow us to focus on running our diverse businesses independently with the goal of maximizing each of the business’ potential. The anticipated benefits of this reorganization may not be obtained if circumstances prevent us from taking advantage of the strategic and business opportunities that we expect it may afford us. As a result, we may incur the costs of a holding company structure without realizing the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Alphabet’s management is dedicating significant effort to the new operating structure. These efforts may divert management’s focus and resources from Alphabet’s business, corporate initiatives, or strategic opportunities, which could have an adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. Additionally, our subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to Alphabet, as the new holding company.

ITEM 1B. | UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

There are no unresolved staff comments at December 31, 2015.

ITEM 2. | PROPERTIES

Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California, where we own approximately 4.8 million square feet of office and building space and approximately fifteen acres of developable land to accommodate anticipated future growth. In addition, we own and lease office and building space, research and development, and sales and support offices primarily in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We operate and own data centers in the U.S., 
17


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Europe, South America, and Asia pursuant to various lease agreements and co-location arrangements. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.

ITEM 3. | LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see Note 11 “Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Matters” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4. | MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.
PART II

ITEM 5. | MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

During the fourth quarter of 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act as of October 2, 2015.
Price Range of Common Stock and Capital Stock
Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since August 19, 2004 and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low sales prices per share for our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

Fiscal Year 2015 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2015 | $ | 581.44 | | | $ | 497.06
June 30, 2015 | 573.66 | | | 532.74 | 
September 30, 2015 | 699.62 | | | 541.70 | 
December 31, 2015 | 793.96 | | | 642.00 | 


Fiscal Year 2014 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2014 | $ | 610.70 | | | $ | 551.17
June 30, 2014 | 585.93 | | | 518.00 | 
September 30, 2014 | 605.40 | | | 571.81 | 
December 31, 2014 | 587.78 | | | 498.16 | 

Our Class B common stock is neither listed nor traded.
Our Class C capital stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since April 3, 2014. Prior to that time, there was no public market for our Class C capital stock. The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low sales prices per share for our Class C capital stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

Fiscal Year 2015 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2015 | $ | 575.33 | | | $ | 492.55
June 30, 2015 | 565.06 | | | 520.51 | 
September 30, 2015 | 672.93 | | | 516.83 | 
December 31, 2015 | 776.60 | | | 611.29 | 


Fiscal Year 2014 Quarters Ended: | High | | Low
March 31, 2014 | $ | — | | | $ | —
June 30, 2014 | 578.65 | | | 509.96 | 
September 30, 2014 | 596.08 | | | 562.73 | 
December 31, 2014 | 577.35 | | | 495.39 | 

18


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Holders of Record
As of December 31, 2015, there were approximately, 2,279 and 2,173 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock, respectively, and the closing prices of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock were $778.01 and $758.88 per share, respectively, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of December 31, 2015, there were approximately 68 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock.
Dividend Policy
We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. We intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class C capital stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2015. 

Period | Total Number of Shares Purchased (in thousands) (1) | Average Price Paid per Share (2) | | Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(in thousands) (1) | Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (in millions)
October 1 - 31 | 0 | | $ | 0.00 | | 0 | $ | 5,099
November 1 - 30 | 1,500 | | $ | 737.72 | | 1,500 | $ | 3,934
December 1 - 31 | 891 | | $ | 757.04 | | 891 | $ | 3,319
Total | 2,391 | | $ | 744.68 | | 2,391 | 


(1) | In October 2015, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $5,099,019,513.59 of its Class C capital stock, commencing in the fourth quarter of 2015. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through the use of 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. Refer to Note 13 in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases.


(2) | Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases.

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
On December 17, 2015, we issued an aggregate of approximately 514 thousand shares of our Class C capital stock in connection with our acquisition of bebop Technologies, Inc. The issuance of our shares was made in reliance upon an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act provided by Regulation D. 
Stock Performance Graph
The following graph compares the 5-year cumulative total return to shareholders on Alphabet Inc.’s common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the RDG Internet Composite index, and the NASDAQ Composite index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in the company’s Class A common stock, Class C capital stock, and in each index on December 31, 2010 and its relative performance is tracked through December 31, 2015. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.
19


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
Among Alphabet Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index
*$100 invested on December 31, 2010 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31.
Copyright© 2015 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.
This performance graph shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference into any filing of Alphabet under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.

ITEM 6. | SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period.
20


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The consolidated statements of income data of Alphabet and Google were as follows for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2011(1) | | 2012(1) | | 2013(1) | | 2014(1) | | 2015
 | (in millions) 
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: | | | | | | | | | 
Revenues | $ | 37,905 | | | $ | 46,039 | | | $ | 55,519 | $ | 66,001 | $ | 74,989
Income from operations | 11,742 | | | 13,834 | | | 15,403 | | | 16,496 | 19,360 | 
Net income from continuing operations | 9,706 | | | 11,435 | | | 13,160 | | | 13,620 | 16,348 | 
Net income (loss) from discontinued operations | 0 | | | (816 | ) | | (427 | ) | | 516 | 0 | 
Net income | 9,706 | | | 10,619 | | | 12,733 | | | 14,136 | 16,348 | 


(1) | In the second quarter of 2015, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities, and as a consequence, we revised our income tax expense for periods beginning in 2008 through the first quarter of 2015. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The basic and diluted income per share data as included on the consolidated statements of income of Alphabet were as follows for the periods presented (not required for Google pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a)):

 | Year Ended December 31, 
 | 2011(1) | | 2012(1) | | 2013(1) | | 2014(1) | | 2015
 | (in millions, except per share amounts)
Basic net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock: | | | | | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 15.04 | | | $ | 17.47 | | | $ | 19.77 | $ | 20.15 | $ | 23.11
Discontinued operations | 0.00 | | | (1.25 | ) | | (0.64 | ) | | 0.76 | 0.00 | 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 15.04 | | | $ | 16.22 | | | $ | 19.13 | $ | 20.91 | $ | 23.11
Basic net income (loss) per share of Class C capital stock: | | | | | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 15.04 | | | $ | 17.47 | | | $ | 19.77 | $ | 20.15 | $ | 24.63
Discontinued operations | 0.00 | | | (1.25 | ) | | (0.64 | ) | | 0.76 | 0.00 | 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 15.04 | | | $ | 16.22 | | | $ | 19.13 | $ | 20.91 | $ | 24.63
Diluted net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock: | | | | | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 14.83 | | | $ | 17.21 | | | $ | 19.42 | $ | 19.82 | $ | 22.84
Discontinued operations | 0.00 | | | (1.23 | ) | | (0.63 | ) | | 0.75 | 0.00 | 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 14.83 | | | $ | 15.98 | | | $ | 18.79 | $ | 20.57 | $ | 22.84
Diluted net income (loss) per share of Class C capital stock: | | | | | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 14.83 | | | $ | 17.21 | | | $ | 19.42 | $ | 19.82 | $ | 24.34
Discontinued operations | 0.00 | | | (1.23 | ) | | (0.63 | ) | | 0.75 | 0.00 | 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 14.83 | | | $ | 15.98 | | | $ | 18.79 | $ | 20.57 | $ | 24.34


(1) | In the second quarter of 2015, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities, and as a consequence, we revised our income tax expense for periods beginning in 2008 through the first quarter of 2015. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K

21


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet and Google were as follows for the periods presented:

 | As of December 31,
 | 2011(1)(2) | | 2012(1)(2) | | 2013(1)(2) | | 2014(1)(2) | 2015
 | (in millions) 
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: | | | | | | | | 
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities | $ | 44,626 | | | $ | 48,088 | | $ | 58,717 | $ | 64,395 | $ | 73,066
Total assets | 72,359 | | | 92,711 | | | 109,050 | | 129,187 | 147,461 | 
Total long-term liabilities | 5,294 | | | 6,662 | | | 6,165 | | 8,548 | 7,820 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 58,118 | | | 71,570 | | | 86,977 | | 103,860 | 120,331 | 


(1) | In the second quarter of 2015, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities, and as a consequence, we revised our income tax expense for periods beginning in 2008 through the first quarter of 2015. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


(2) | Includes reclassifications of deferred tax assets and liabilities related to ASU 2015-17 “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” Please refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


ITEM 7. | MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Trends in Our Business
The following trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to impact our future results:
•Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves.
The continuing shift from an offline to online world has contributed to the growth of our business since inception, resulting in increasing revenues, and we expect that this online shift will continue to benefit our business.
•As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings which may impact our monetization.
As interactions between users and advertisers change, we continue to expand our product offerings to serve their changing needs. Over time, we expect our monetization trends to fluctuate. For example, we have seen an increase in YouTube engagement ads, which monetize at a lower rate than traditional search desktop ads. Additionally, advertisers are beginning to shift to programmatic buying which presents opportunities for advertisers to connect with the right user, in the right moment, in the right context. This may also have different monetization profiles to our existing advertising business. These trends will continue to affect our monetization in the future.
•Users are increasingly using multiple devices to access our products and services, and our advertising revenues are increasingly coming from mobile phones and other new formats.
Our users are accessing the Internet via multiple devices. Mobile computing power continues to grow and users want to feel connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. We seek to expand our products and services to stay in front of this shift in order to maintain and grow our business.
In this multi-device world, we generate our advertising revenues increasingly from mobile phones and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these sources have generally been lower than those from desktop computers and tablets. Our traffic acquisition cost (TAC) may also be impacted because the rates at which we share mobile revenues with our partners may differ from our traditional desktop and tablet formats. We expect both of these trends to continue to put pressure on our overall margins, particularly if we fail to realize the opportunities presented during the transition to a dynamic multi-screen environment.
•As users in developing economies increasingly come online, we generate increasing revenues from international markets, and movements in foreign exchange rates impact such revenues.
22


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., especially in emerging markets, and we continue to develop localized versions of our products and relevant advertising programs useful to our users in these markets. This has led to a trend of increased revenues from international markets over time and we expect that our results will continue to be impacted by our performance in these markets, particularly as low-cost mobile devices become more available.
Our international revenues represent a significant proportion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a foreign exchange risk management program designed to reduce our exposure to these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect on our revenues and earnings.
•The portion of our revenues that we derive from non-advertising revenues is increasing.
Non-advertising revenues have grown over time. We expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our Google offerings to our users through products like Google Play, cloud and apps and hardware products. Across these initiatives, we currently derive non-advertising revenues primarily from sales of digital content products, hardware sales, service and licensing fees; the margins on these non-advertising businesses vary significantly and may be lower than the margins on our advertising business. A number of our Other Bets initiatives are in their initial development stages, and as such, the sources of revenues from these businesses could change over time and the revenues themselves could be volatile.
•As we continue to look for new ways to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in R&D and our capital expenditures will continue to fluctuate.
We continue to make significant research and development (R&D) investments in areas of strategic focus for Google, such as search and advertising, as well as in new products and services across both Google and Other Bets. The amount of our capital expenditures has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in the long term as we invest heavily in our systems, data centers, real estate and facilities, and information technology infrastructure.
In addition, acquisitions remain an important part of our strategy and use of capital, and we expect to continue to spend cash on acquisitions and other investments. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expanding our expertise in engineering and other functional areas.

• | Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them.

Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. Their energy and talent drive Alphabet and create our success. We expect to continue hiring talented employees and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees. As of December 31, 2015, we had 61,814 full-time employees: 23,336 in research and development, 19,082 in sales and marketing, 10,944 in operations, and 8,452 in general and administrative, an increase of 8,214 total headcount from December 31, 2014.
Executive Overview of Results
Here are our key financial results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 (consolidated unless otherwise noted):

• | Revenues of $75.0 billion and revenue growth of 14% year over year, constant currency revenue growth of 20% year over year.


• | Google segment revenues of $74.5 billion with revenue growth of 14% and Other Bets revenues of $0.4 billion.


• | Revenues from the United States, the United Kingdom, and Rest of World were $34.8 billion, $7.1 billion, and $33.1 billion, respectively.


• | Cost of revenues was $28.2 billion, consisting of traffic acquisition costs of $14.4 billion and other cost of revenues of $13.8 billion. Our traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues was 21%.


• | Operating expenses (excluding cost of revenues) were $27.5 billion.


• | Income from operations was $19.4 billion.


• | Effective tax rate of 17%.


• | Net income was $16.3 billion with diluted net income per share for Class A and B common stock of $22.84 and for Class C capital stock of $24.34.


• | Operating cash flow was $26.0 billion.


• | Capital expenditures were $9.9 billion.

23


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


• | Headcount was 61,814 as of December 31, 2015.

Information about Segments
In conjunction with the Alphabet reorganization, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we implemented legal and operational changes in how our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) manages our businesses, including resource allocation and performance assessment. Consequently, we have multiple operating segments, representing the individual businesses that are run separately under the Alphabet structure. 
Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the operating segments are combined and disclosed below as Other Bets. All prior-period amounts have been adjusted retrospectively to reflect the reportable segment change.
Our reported segments are described below:

• | Google – Google includes our main internet products such as Search, Ads, Commerce, Maps, YouTube, Apps, Cloud, Android, Chrome, Google Play as well as hardware products we sell, such as Chromecast, Chromebooks and Nexus. Our technical infrastructure and newer efforts like Virtual Reality are also included in Google.


• | Other Bets – Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access/Google Fiber, Calico, Nest, Verily, GV, Google Capital, X, and other initiatives.

Please refer to Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.
Consolidated Results of Operations
The following table presents our operating results as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
2013(1)(2) | | 2014(1)(2) | 2015 
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: | | | | 
Revenues | 100.0 | % | 100.0 | % | 100.0 | %
Costs and expenses: | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 39.6 | | 38.9 | | 37.6 | 
Research and development | 12.9 | | 14.9 | | 16.3 | 
Sales and marketing | 11.8 | | 12.3 | | 12.1 | 
General and administrative | 8.0 | | 8.9 | | 8.2 | 
Total costs and expenses | 72.3 | % | 75.0 | % | 74.2 | %
Income from operations | 27.7 | | 25.0 | | 25.8 | 
Other income (expense), net | 0.9 | | 1.1 | | 0.4 | 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes | 28.6 | | 26.1 | | 26.2 | 
Provision for income taxes | 4.9 | | 5.5 | | 4.4 | 
Net income from continuing operations | 23.7 | | 20.6 | | 21.8 | 
Net income (loss) from discontinued operations | (0.8 | ) | 0.8 | | 0.0 | 
Net income | 22.9 | % | 21.4 | % | 21.8 | %


(1) | Financial results of Motorola Home were included in net income (loss) from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2013. Financial results of Motorola Mobile were included in net income (loss) from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014.


(2) | In the second quarter of 2015, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities, and as a consequence, we revised our income tax expense for periods beginning in 2008 through the first quarter of 2015. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

24


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Consolidated Revenues
The following table presents our consolidated revenues, by segment and revenue source (in millions), for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Google segment | | | | | 
Google websites | $ | 37,422 | | | $ | 45,085 | | $ | 52,357
Google Network Members' websites (1) | 13,650 | | | 14,539 | | | 15,033
Google advertising revenues | 51,072 | | | 59,624 | | | 67,390
Google other revenues (1) | 4,435 | | | 6,050 | | | 7,151 
Google segment revenues | $ | 55,507 | | | $ | 65,674 | | $ | 74,541
Other Bets | | | | | 
Other Bets revenues | $ | 12 | | | $ | 327 | | $ | 448 
Consolidated revenues | $ | 55,519 | | | $ | 66,001 | | $ | 74,989


(1) | Prior period amounts have been adjusted to reflect the reclassification primarily related to DoubleClick ad serving software revenues from Google other revenues to Advertising Revenues from Google Network Members' websites to conform with the current period presentation.

Google segment
The following table presents our Google segment revenues (in millions), those revenues expressed as a percentage of consolidated revenues, and changes in our aggregate paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Google segment revenues | $ | 55,507 | | | $ | 65,674 | | | $ | 74,541
Google segment revenues as a percentage of consolidated revenues | 100.0 | % | | 99.5 | % | | 99.4 | %
Aggregate paid clicks change | | | 20 | % | | 22 | % 
Aggregate cost-per-click change | | | (5 | )% | | (11 | )% 

Use of Monetization Metrics
When assessing our advertising revenue performance, we present information regarding the number of "paid clicks" and "cost-per-click" for our Google websites and Google Network Members websites. Management views these as important metrics for understanding our business. We periodically review, refine and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks and for identifying the revenues generated by click activity.
Paid clicks for our Google websites represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users related to searches on Google.com, clicks related to advertisements on other owned and operated properties including Gmail, Finance, Maps, and Google Play; and viewed YouTube engagement ads like TrueView (counted as an engagement when the user chooses not to skip the ad). Paid clicks for our Google Network Members' websites include clicks by end-users related to advertisements served on Google Network Members' properties participating in our AdSense for Search, AdSense for Content and AdMob businesses. In some cases, such as programmatic and reservation based advertising buying, we charge advertisers by impression; while growing, this represents a small part of our revenue base. 
Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenue divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average cost of each engagement by users we charge advertisers.
The rate of change in revenue and revenue growth, as well as the rate of change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google websites and Google Network Members' websites and their correlation with the rate of change in revenues, has fluctuated and may fluctuate in the future because of various factors, including:
25


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


• | growth rates of our revenues from Google websites, including YouTube, compared to those of our revenues from Google Network Members' websites;


• | advertiser competition for keywords;


• | changes in foreign currency exchange rates;


• | seasonality;


• | the fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs;


• | changes in advertising quality or formats;


• | traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals and channels;


• | a shift in the proportion of non-click based revenue generated in Google websites and Google Network Members' websites, including an increase in programmatic and reservation based advertising buying; and


• | general economic conditions.

Our revenue growth rate has generally declined over time as a result of a number of factors, including increasing competition, query growth rates, challenges in maintaining our growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels, the evolution of the online advertising market, our investments in new business strategies, changes in our product mix, and shifts in the geographic mix of our revenues. We also expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to be affected by evolving user preferences, the acceptance by users of our products and services as they are delivered on diverse devices, our ability to create a seamless experience for both users and advertisers, and movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
Google websites
The following table presents our Google websites revenues (in millions), those revenues expressed as a percentage of Google segment revenues, and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage) for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Google websites | $ | 37,422 | | | $ | 45,085 | | | $ | 52,357
Google websites as a percentage of Google segment revenues | 67.4 | % | | 68.6 | % | | 70.2 | %
Paid clicks change | | | 29 | % | | 33 | % 
Cost-per-click change | | | (7 | )% | | (15 | )% 

Google websites revenues consist primarily of:

• | AdWords revenue that is generated on Google.com. This includes revenue from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.;


• | Advertising revenue generated on YouTube, including, but not limited to YouTube TrueView and Google Preferred; and


• | Advertising revenue generated from other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Finance, Maps, and Google Play.

Our Google websites revenues increased $7,272 million from 2014 to 2015 and also increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. Our Google websites revenue growth was primarily driven by increases in mobile search due to ongoing improvements in ad formats, as well as growth in YouTube video advertising across TrueView and Google Preferred, partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs increased from 2014 to 2015 due to an increase in aggregate traffic on Google owned properties, the adoption of advertising formats such as YouTube engagement ads, and continued global expansion of our products, advertisers and user base across all platforms, particularly mobile. The positive impact on our revenues from paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The decrease was primarily driven by continued growth in YouTube engagement ads where cost-per-click remains lower than on our other platforms, as well as changes in property and device mix, product mix, geographic mix, and ongoing product changes, and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Our Google websites revenues increased $7,663 million from 2013 to 2014 and also increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. Our Google websites revenue growth was driven primarily by growth across all platforms due to ongoing improvements in ad formats, as well as growth in YouTube engagement ads, partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
26


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The increase in the number of paid clicks generated through our advertising programs from 2013 to 2014 was due to certain monetization improvements including new and richer ad formats, an increase in aggregate traffic across all platforms, the continued global expansion of our products, advertisers, and user base, partially offset by certain advertising policy changes. The positive impact on our revenues from paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the average cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The decrease was due to various factors, such as the geographic mix, device mix, property mix, ongoing product and policy changes, and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Google Network Members' websites
The following table presents our Google Network Members' websites revenues (in millions), those revenues expressed as a percentage of Google segment revenues, and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click for the periods presented (in percentage terms):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Google Network Members' websites(1) | $ | 13,650 | | | $ | 14,539 | | | $ | 15,033
Google Network Members' websites revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues(1) | 24.6 | % | | 22.1 | % | | 20.2 | %
Paid clicks change | | | 2 | % | | (7 | )% 
Cost-per-click change | | | (6 | )% | | (3 | )% 


(1) | Prior period amounts have been adjusted to reflect the reclassification primarily related to DoubleClick ad serving software revenues from Google other revenues to Advertising Revenues from Google Network Members' websites to conform with the current period presentation.

Google Network Members' websites revenues consist primarily of:

• | AdSense (such as AdSense for Search, AdSense for Content, etc.);


• | AdExchange;


• | AdMob;


• | All DoubleClick-related revenues including DoubleClick Bid Manager revenues; and


• | Other Network products including AdSense for Domains.

Our Google Network Members' websites revenues increased $494 million from 2014 to 2015. The increase was primarily driven by strength in programmatic advertising buying, offset by our continued AdSense advertising policy changes aimed at enriching the experience for users and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. The decrease in Network Members' websites revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues is due to relatively slower growth of Network Members' websites revenues compared to that of Google websites revenues as well as Google other revenues.
The decreases in both paid clicks and cost-per-click paid by our advertisers from 2014 to 2015 were primarily driven by ongoing product and policy changes designed to reduce lower quality inventory on AdSense for Search, changes in property and device mix, product mix, and geographic mix, and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Our Google Network Members' websites revenues increased $889 million from 2013 to 2014. The increase was mainly due to certain monetization improvements including new and richer ad formats and an increase in the number of Google Network Members, partially offset by certain AdSense advertising policy changes aimed at enriching the experience for users. The decrease in Network Members' websites revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues is due to relatively slower growth of Network Members' websites revenues compared to that of Google websites revenues as well as Google other revenues.
The increase in paid clicks from 2013 to 2014 was due to certain monetization improvements including new and richer ad formats, an increase in aggregate traffic across all platforms, the continued global expansion of our products, advertisers, and user base, and an increase in the number of Google Network Members, partially offset by certain advertising policy changes. The decrease in the average cost-per-click from 2013 to 2014 was due to various factors, such as the geographic mix, device mix, property mix, ongoing product and policy changes, and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
27


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Google other revenues
The following table presents our Google other revenues (in millions), and those revenues expressed as a percentage of Google segment revenues, for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Google other revenues(1) | $ | 4,435 | | | $ | 6,050 | | | $ | 7,151
Google other revenues as a percentage of Google segment revenues(1) | 8.0 | % | | 9.3 | % | | 9.6 | %


(1) | Prior period amounts have been adjusted to reflect the reclassification primarily related to DoubleClick ad serving software revenues from Google other revenues to Advertising Revenues from Google Network Members' websites to conform with the current period presentation.

Google other revenues consist primarily of:
•Sales of apps and media content in the Google Play store;

• | Sales of certain Google branded hardware, such as Chromecast;

•Service fees received for cloud and apps and our Maps API; and
•Licensing-related revenue.
Google other revenues increased $1,101 million from 2014 to 2015 and increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. These increases were primarily due to the growth of our sales of digital content products in the Google Play store, primarily apps (revenues which we recognize net of payout to partners). In addition, there was an increase in revenues from service fees received for cloud and apps offerings. These increases were partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies.
Google other revenues increased $1,615 million from 2013 to 2014 and increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. The increase was primarily due to growth of our sales of digital content products in the Google Play store, primarily apps.
Other Bets
The following table presents our Other Bets revenues (in millions), and those revenues expressed as a percentage of consolidated revenues, for the periods presented:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Other Bets revenues | $ | 12 | | | $ | 327 | | | $ | 448
Other Bets revenues as a percentage of consolidated revenues | 0.0 | % | | 0.5 | % | | 0.6 | %

Other Bets revenues consist primarily of:

• | Sales of Nest branded hardware;


• | Revenues from internet and TV services; and


• | Revenues from licensing and R&D services.

Our Other Bets revenues increased $121 million from 2014 to 2015 and remained relatively flat as a percentage of consolidated revenues. The increase was primarily due to increases in revenues from sales of Nest branded hardware and revenues from internet and TV services, partially offset by a decrease in licensing revenues. As Nest was acquired in February 2014, the increase in our Nest revenues is impacted by a partial year of revenues in 2014 as compared to a full year in 2015.
Our Other Bets revenues increased $315 million from 2013 to 2014 and increased as a percentage of consolidated revenues. This is primarily due to the acquisition of Nest in 2014 as well as an increase of licensing revenues.
28


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Consolidated Revenues by Geography
The following table presents our domestic and international revenues as a percentage of consolidated revenues, determined based on the billing addresses of our customers:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
United States | 46 | % | | 45 | % | 46 | %
United Kingdom | 10 | % | | 10 | % | 10 | %
Rest of the world | 44 | % | | 45 | % | 44 | %

For the amounts of revenues by geography, please refer to Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Use of Constant Currency and Constant Currency Growth
The impact of exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period to period comparisons. Our international revenues are favorably impacted as the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other foreign currencies, and unfavorably impacted as the U.S dollar strengthens relative to other foreign currencies. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to reported results helps improve the ability to understand our performance because they exclude the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.
Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and use it to determine the constant currency revenue growth on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging gains realized in the current period.
Constant currency revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) is calculated by determining the increase in current period revenues over prior period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior period exchange rates and hedging benefits are excluded from revenues of both periods.
These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.
The following table presents our foreign exchange impact on United Kingdom revenues for the periods presented (in millions; unaudited):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
United Kingdom revenues | $ | 5,600 | | | $ | 6,483 | | | $ | 7,067
Exclude: Foreign exchange impact on current year revenues using prior period rates | 67 | | | (304 | ) | | 538 | 
Exclude: Hedging gains recognized | (63 | ) | | (3 | ) | | (133 | )
Constant currency United Kingdom revenues | $ | 5,604 | | | $ | 6,176 | | | $ | 7,472
United Kingdom revenue growth rate | | | 16 | % | | 9 | % 
United Kingdom constant currency revenue growth rate | | | 12 | % | | 15 | % 

In 2015, our revenues from the United Kingdom were unfavorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates over the prior year, primarily as the U.S. dollar strengthened relative to the British pound. 
In 2014, our revenues from the United Kingdom were favorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates over the prior year, primarily as the U.S. dollar weakened relative to the British pound. 
29


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The following table presents our foreign exchange impact on Rest of the world and total revenues for the periods presented (in millions; unaudited):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Rest of the world revenues(1) | $ | 24,332 | | | $ | 30,036 | | | $ | 33,112
Exclude: Foreign exchange impact on current year revenues using prior period rates | 535 | | | 857 | | | 5,052 | 
Exclude: Hedging gains recognized | (32 | ) | | (169 | ) | | (1,267 | )
Constant currency Rest of the world revenues | $ | 24,835 | | | $ | 30,724 | | | $ | 36,897
Rest of the world revenue growth rate | | | | 23 | % | | 10 | %
Rest of the world constant currency revenue growth rate | | | | 26 | % | | 24 | %
United States revenues(1) | $ | 25,587 | | | $ | 29,482 | | | $ | 34,810
United States revenue growth rate | | | | 15 | % | | 18 | %
Total consolidated revenues | $ | 55,519 | | | $ | 66,001 | | | $ | 74,989
Constant currency total consolidated revenues | $ | 56,026 | | | $ | 66,382 | | | $ | 79,179
Total consolidated revenue growth rate | | | | 19 | % | | 14 | %
Constant currency total consolidated revenue growth rate | | | | 20 | % | | 20 | %


(1) | In the second quarter of 2015, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities. We revised the classification of such revenues between Rest of the world and U.S. for prior periods. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual report t on Form 10-K for further information.

In 2015, our revenues from the Rest of the world (excluding the United Kingdom) were unfavorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily because the U.S. dollar strengthened relative to the Euro, Brazilian real, Australian dollar and Japanese yen.
In 2014, our revenues from the Rest of the world (excluding the United Kingdom) were unfavorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as the U.S. dollar strengthened relative to certain currencies, most notably the Japanese yen and the Australian dollar, and partially offset by the favorable impact of the U.S. dollar weakening against certain currencies, most notably the Euro.
Consolidated Costs and Expenses
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists primarily of traffic acquisition costs which are the advertising revenues shared with our Google Network Members and the amounts paid to our distribution partners who distribute our browser or otherwise direct search queries to our website.
Additionally, other cost of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding traffic acquisition costs) includes the following:

• | The expenses associated with the operation of our data centers (including depreciation, labor, energy, and bandwidth costs);


• | Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to certain content providers from whom we license their video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we share the fees these sales generate with content providers or pay a fixed fee to these content providers);


• | Credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions;


• | Stock-based compensation expense;


• | Revenue share payments to mobile carriers;


• | Inventory costs for hardware we sell; and


• | Amortization of certain intangible assets.

The following tables present our cost of revenues and cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues, and our traffic acquisition costs and traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues, for the periods presented (in millions):
30


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Traffic acquisition costs | $ | 12,258 | | | $ | 13,497 | | | $ | 14,343
Other cost of revenues | 9,735 | | | 12,194 | | | 13,821 | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 21,993 | | | $ | 25,691 | | | $ | 28,164
Total cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues | 39.6 | % | | 38.9 | % | | 37.6 | %
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Traffic acquisition costs to Google Network Members | $ | 9,293 | | | $ | 9,864 | | | $ | 10,242
Traffic acquisition costs to distribution partners | 2,965 | | | 3,633 | | | 4,101 | 
Traffic acquisition costs | $ | 12,258 | | | $ | 13,497 | | | $ | 14,343
Traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues | 24.0 | % | | 22.6 | % | | 21.3 | %

The cost of revenues that we incur related to revenues generated from ads placed through our AdSense program on the websites of our Google Network Members are significantly higher than the costs of revenues we incur related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google websites because most of the advertiser fees from ads served on Google Network Members’ websites are shared with our Google Network Members. For the past five years, growth in advertising revenues from Google websites has generally exceeded that from our Google Network Members’ websites. This had a positive impact on our income from operations during this period. 
Cost of revenues increased $2,473 million from 2014 to 2015. The increase was primarily due to data center costs and an increase in content acquisition costs as a result of increased activities related to YouTube and digital content. The remaining increase was driven by increases in traffic acquisition costs of $846 million, resulting from more advertiser fees generated through our AdSense program driven primarily by an increase in advertising revenues, as well as more fees paid to our distribution partners for additional traffic directed to our websites. Additionally, there was an impairment charge of $378 million recognized in 2014 related to a patent licensing royalty asset acquired in connection with the Motorola acquisition that did not recur in 2015. The decrease in aggregate traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues was primarily a result of a shift of mix from Google Network Members' websites revenue to Google websites revenue.
Cost of revenues increased $3,698 million from 2013 to 2014. The increase was partially due to increases in traffic acquisition costs of $1,239 million resulting from more distribution fees paid for additional traffic directed to Google websites, as well as more advertiser fees paid to Google Network Members, driven primarily by an increase in advertising revenues. The remaining increase was primarily driven by an increase in data center costs, content acquisition costs as a result of increased usage activities related to YouTube and digital content by our users, and revenue share payments to mobile carriers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In addition, the increase was also driven by the impairment charge described above. The decrease in traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of advertising revenues was primarily a result of a shift of mix between Google websites revenue and Google Network Members' websites revenue.
We expect cost of revenues will increase in dollar amount and fluctuate as a percentage of total revenues in 2016 and future periods, based on a number of factors, including the following:

• | The relative growth rates of revenues from Google websites and from our Google Network Members' website;


• | The growth rates of expenses associated with our data center operations, as well as our hardware inventory costs;


• | Increased proportion of other non-advertising revenues as part of our total revenues;


• | Whether we are able to enter into more revenue share arrangements with Google Network Members and distribution partners that provide for lower revenue share obligations or whether increased competition for arrangements with existing and potential Google Network Members and distribution partners results in less favorable revenue share arrangements;


• | Whether we are able to continue to improve the monetization of traffic on Google websites and our Google Network Members' websites; and


• | The relative growth rates of expenses associated with distribution arrangements and the related revenues generated.

31


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Research and Development
The following table presents our R&D expenses, and those expenses as a percentage of revenues, for the periods presented (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Research and development expenses | $ | 7,137 | | | $ | 9,832 | | | $ | 12,282
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues | 12.9 | % | | 14.9 | % | | 16.3 | %

R&D expenses consist primarily of:

• | Labor and facilities-related costs for employees responsible for R&D of our existing and new products and services;


• | Depreciation and equipment-related expenses; and


• | Stock-based compensation expense.

R&D expenses increased $2,450 million and increased as a percentage of revenues from 2014 to 2015. These increases were primarily due to an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $1,502 million and an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $487 million, both largely as a result of a 16% increase in R&D headcount. The increase in labor and facilities-related costs was also impacted by expenses resulting from project milestones in Other Bets established several years ago. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of approximately $248 million and an increase in professional services of $174 million due to additional expenses incurred for consulting and outsourced services.
R&D expenses increased $2,695 million and increased as a percentage of revenues from 2013 to 2014. These increases were primarily due to an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $1,289 million and an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $559 million, both largely as a result of a 27% increase in R&D headcount. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of $425 million and an increase in professional services of $371 million due to additional expenses incurred for consulting and outsourced services. 
We expect that R&D expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in 2016 and future periods.
Sales and Marketing
The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses, and those expenses as a percentage of revenues, for the periods presented (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Sales and marketing expenses | $ | 6,554 | | | $ | 8,131 | | | $ | 9,047
Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues | 11.8 | % | | 12.3 | % | | 12.1 | %

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of:

• | Labor and facilities-related costs for our personnel engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions;


• | Advertising and promotional expenditures related to our products and services; and


• | Stock-based compensation expense.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $916 million and remained relatively flat as a percentage of revenues from 2014 to 2015. The increase in dollar amount was primarily due to an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $329 million and an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $184 million, largely resulting from a 12% increase in sales and marketing headcount. In addition, there was an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $184 million and an increase in professional service fees of $158 million due to additional expenses incurred for consulting and outsourced services.
Sales and marketing expenses increased $1,577 million from 2013 to 2014 and increased as a percentage of revenues from 2013 to 2014. These increases were primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $614 million. In addition, there was an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $571 million and an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $163 million, both largely resulting from a 15% increase in sales and marketing headcount.
32


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

We expect that sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in 2016 and future periods.
General and Administrative
The following table presents our general and administrative expenses, and those expenses as a percentage of revenues, for the periods presented (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
General and administrative expenses | $ | 4,432 | | | $ | 5,851 | | | $ | 6,136
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues | 8.0 | % | | 8.9 | % | | 8.2 | %

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of:

• | Labor and facilities-related costs for personnel in our facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations;


• | Depreciation and equipment-related expenses;


• | Professional services fees primarily related to outside legal, audit, information technology consulting, and outsourcing services;


• | Amortization of certain intangible assets; and


• | Stock-based compensation expense.

General and administrative expenses increased $285 million and decreased as a percentage of revenues from 2014 to 2015. The increase in dollar amount was primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $136 million and an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $69 million, both largely resulting from a 15% increase in general and administrative headcount. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of $121 million and an increase of $80 million of miscellaneous general and administrative expenses. These factors were partially offset by a decrease in professional service fees and expenses of $128 million, primarily due to lower legal-related costs.
General and administrative expenses increased $1,419 million and increased as a percentage of revenues from 2013 to 2014. The increases were primarily due to an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $576 million and an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $260 million, both largely resulting from a 24% increase in general and administrative headcount. In addition, there was an increase in professional services related expense of $314 million due to higher legal related costs, as well as additional consulting and outsourced services.
We expect general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in 2016 and future periods. 
Stock-Based Compensation
The following table presents our equity settled stock-based compensation expense, and equity settled stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenues, as reflected in our consolidated results from continuing operations for the periods presented (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Stock-based compensation | $ | 3,127 | | | $ | 4,175 | | $ | 5,203
Stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenues | 5.6 | % | | 6.3 | % | | 6.9%

Stock-based compensation related to equity settled awards increased $1,028 million from 2014 to 2015 and $1,048 million from 2013 to 2014, and increased as a percentage of revenues in both periods. These increases were primarily driven by headcount growth. Additionally, we recognized stock-based compensation expense associated with awards ultimately settled in cash of $0 million, $0 million, and $50 million in the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015, respectively.
We estimate equity settled stock-based compensation expense to be approximately $5.3 billion in 2016 and $5.8 billion thereafter related to stock awards outstanding as of December 31, 2015. This estimate does not include expenses to be recognized related to stock-based awards granted after December 31, 2015. If forfeiture rates are different from what we have anticipated, stock-based compensation related to these awards will be different from our expectations.
33


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Consolidated Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table presents other income (expense), net, and other income (expense), net, as a percentage of revenues (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Other income (expense), net | $ | 496 | | | $ | 763 | | $ | 291
Other income (expense), net, as a percentage of revenues | 0.9 | % | | 1.1 | % | | 0.4%

Other income (expense), net, decreased $472 million from 2014 to 2015. This decrease was primarily related to a writedown of securities received in conjunction with the sale of a business, as well as, reduced gains on non-marketable investments as compared to 2014. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in interest income as a result of increased cash and fixed income investments. 
Other income (expense), net, increased $267 million from 2013 to 2014. This increase was primarily driven by realized gains on non-marketable equity investments of $159 million and previously-held equity interests of $126 million, as well as a loss recognized on divestiture of businesses (other than Motorola Home) in 2013. These increases were partially offset by an increase in foreign currency exchange loss of $23 million and a decrease in interest income of $20 million.
The costs of our foreign exchange hedging activities recognized to other income, net, are primarily a function of the notional amount of the option and forward contracts and their related duration, the movement of the foreign exchange rates relative to the strike prices of the contracts, and the volatility of foreign exchange rates.
As we expand our international business, costs related to hedging activities under our foreign exchange risk management program may increase in 2016 and future periods.
Consolidated Provision for Income Taxes
The following table presents our provision for income taxes, and effective tax rate for the periods presented (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013(1) | | 2014(1) | | 2015
Provision for income taxes | $ | 2,739 | | | $ | 3,639 | | | $ | 3,303
Effective tax rate | 17.2 | % | | 21.1 | % | | 16.8 | %


(1) | In the second quarter of 2015, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities, and as a consequence, we revised our income tax expense for periods beginning in 2008 through the first quarter of 2015. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate decreased from 2014 to 2015, largely due to a discrete benefit recognized in 2015 as a result of the resolution of a multi-year audit in the U.S. and proportionately more earnings realized in countries that have lower statutory tax rates.
Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate increased from 2013 to 2014, largely due to proportionately more earnings realized in countries that have higher statutory tax rates and more benefit recognized in 2013 relative to 2014 due to the retroactive extension of the 2012 federal research and development credit, offset by a benefit taken on a valuation allowance release related to a capital loss carryforward in 2014.
A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate is set forth in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items.
We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations 
34


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

in various taxing jurisdictions. Further information on these issues, the treatment of undistributed foreign earnings and a reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate can be found in Notes 11 and 15 of Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates below for additional information about our provision for income taxes.
Quarterly Results of Operations
The following tables presenting our quarterly results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have prepared the unaudited information on the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements. Our operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future quarters or for a full year. 
The following table presents our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2015. This table includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that we consider necessary for fair presentation of our consolidated financial position and operating results for the quarters presented. Both seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional retail seasonality have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends have caused, and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates.

 | Quarter Ended 
 | Mar 31,2014(1) | | Jun 30,2014(1) | | Sep 30,2014(1) | | Dec 31,2014(1) | | Mar 31,2015(1) | | Jun 30,2015 | Sep 30,2015 | | Dec 31,2015
 | (In millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: 
Revenues | $ | 15,420 | | | $ | 15,955 | | | $ | 16,523 | | $ | 18,103 | | | $ | 17,258 | | $ | 17,727 | | $ | 18,675 | $ | 21,329
Costs and expenses: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 5,961 | | | 6,114 | | | 6,695 | | | 6,921 | | 6,356 | | | 6,583 | | | 7,037 | | 8,188 | 
Research and development | 2,126 | | | 2,238 | | | 2,655 | | | 2,813 | | 2,753 | | | 2,789 | | | 3,230 | | 3,510 | 
Sales and marketing | 1,729 | | | 1,941 | | | 2,084 | | | 2,377 | | 2,065 | | | 2,080 | | | 2,223 | | 2,679 | 
General and administrative | 1,489 | | | 1,404 | | | 1,365 | | | 1,593 | | 1,637 | | | 1,450 | | | 1,477 | | 1,572 | 
Total costs and expenses | 11,305 | | | 11,697 | | | 12,799 | | | 13,704 | | 12,811 | | | 12,902 | | | 13,967 | | 15,949 | 
Income from operations | 4,115 | | | 4,258 | | | 3,724 | | | 4,399 | | 4,447 | | | 4,825 | | | 4,708 | | 5,380 | 
Other income (expense), net | 357 | | | 145 | | | 133 | | | 128 | | 157 | | | 131 | | | 183 | | (180 | )
Income from continuing operations before income taxes | 4,472 | | | 4,403 | | | 3,857 | | | 4,527 | | 4,604 | | | 4,956 | | | 4,891 | | 5,200 | 
Provision for income taxes | 903 | | | 984 | | | 933 | | | 819 | | 1,089 | | | 1,025 | | | 912 | | 277 | 
Net income from continuing operations | $ | 3,569 | | | $ | 3,419 | | | $ | 2,924 | | $ | 3,708 | | | $ | 3,515 | | $ | 3,931 | | $ | 3,979 | $ | 4,923 
Net income (loss) from discontinued operations | (198 | ) | | (68 | ) | | (185 | ) | | 967 | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | 
Net income | $ | 3,371 | | | $ | 3,351 | | | $ | 2,739 | | $ | 4,675 | | | $ | 3,515 | | $ | 3,931 | | $ | 3,979 | $ | 4,923 
Less: Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | | | 522 | | | 0 | | 0 | 
Net income available to all stockholders | $ | 3,371 | | | $ | 3,351 | | | $ | 2,739 | | $ | 4,675 | | | $ | 3,515 | | $ | 3,409 | | $ | 3,979 | $ | 4,923 


(1) | In the second quarter of 2015, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities, and as a consequence, we revised our income tax expense for periods beginning in 2008 through the first quarter of 2015. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

35


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The basic and diluted income per share data as included on the consolidated statements of income of Alphabet Inc. were as follows for the periods presented (not required for Google pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a)):

 | Quarter Ended 
 | Mar 31,2014(1) | | Jun 30,2014(1) | | Sep 30,2014(1) | | Dec 31,2014(1) | | Mar 31,2015(1) | | Jun 30,2015 | Sep 30,2015 | | Dec 31,2015
 | (unaudited) 
Basic net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 5.30 | | | $ | 5.06 | | | $ | 4.32 | | $ | 5.46 | | | $ | 5.16 | | $ | 4.99 | $ | 5.80 | $ | 7.16
Discontinued operations | (0.29 | ) | | (0.10 | ) | | (0.27 | ) | | 1.43 | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 5.01 | | | $ | 4.96 | | | $ | 4.05 | | $ | 6.89 | | | $ | 5.16 | | $ | 4.99 | $ | 5.80 | $ | 7.16
Basic net income (loss) per share of Class C capital stock: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 5.30 | | | $ | 5.06 | | | $ | 4.32 | | $ | 5.46 | | | $ | 5.16 | | $ | 6.51 | $ | 5.80 | $ | 7.16
Discontinued operations | (0.29 | ) | | (0.10 | ) | | (0.27 | ) | | 1.43 | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 5.01 | | | $ | 4.96 | | | $ | 4.05 | | $ | 6.89 | | | $ | 5.16 | | $ | 6.51 | $ | 5.80 | $ | 7.16
Diluted net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 5.21 | | | $ | 4.98 | | | $ | 4.25 | | $ | 5.38 | | | $ | 5.10 | | $ | 4.93 | $ | 5.73 | $ | 7.06
Discontinued operations | (0.29 | ) | | (0.10 | ) | | (0.27 | ) | | 1.41 | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 4.92 | | | $ | 4.88 | | | $ | 3.98 | | $ | 6.79 | | | $ | 5.10 | | $ | 4.93 | $ | 5.73 | $ | 7.06
Diluted net income (loss) per share of Class C capital stock: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 5.21 | | | $ | 4.98 | | | $ | 4.25 | | $ | 5.38 | | | $ | 5.10 | | $ | 6.43 | $ | 5.73 | $ | 7.06
Discontinued operations | (0.29 | ) | | (0.10 | ) | | (0.27 | ) | | 1.41 | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | 0.00
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 4.92 | | | $ | 4.88 | | | $ | 3.98 | | $ | 6.79 | | | $ | 5.10 | | $ | 6.43 | $ | 5.73 | $ | 7.06


(1) | In the second quarter of 2015, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities, and as a consequence, we revised our income tax expense for periods beginning in 2008 through the first quarter of 2015. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

36


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The following table presents our unaudited quarterly results of operations as a percentage of revenues for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2015:

 | Quarter Ended 
 | Mar 31,2014(1) | | Jun 30,2014(1) | | Sep 30,2014(1) | Dec 31,2014(1) | | Mar 31,2015(1) | | Jun 30,2015 | Sep 30,2015 | | Dec 31,2015
 | (unaudited) 
Revenues | 100.0 | % | | 100.0 | % | 100.0 | % | | 100.0 | % | 100.0 | % | | 100.0 | % | 100.0 | % | 100.0 | %
Costs and expenses: | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 38.7 | | | 38.3 | | 40.5 | | | 38.2 | | 36.8 | | | 37.1 | | 37.7 | | 38.4 | 
Research and development | 13.8 | | | 14.0 | | 16.1 | | | 15.5 | | 16.0 | | | 15.7 | | 17.3 | | 16.4 | 
Sales and marketing | 11.2 | | | 12.2 | | 12.6 | | | 13.1 | | 12.0 | | | 11.8 | | 11.9 | | 12.6 | 
General and administrative | 9.6 | | | 8.8 | | 8.3 | | | 8.9 | | 9.4 | | | 8.2 | | 7.9 | | 7.4 | 
Total costs and expenses | 73.3 | | | 73.3 | | 77.5 | | | 75.7 | | 74.2 | | | 72.8 | | 74.8 | | 74.8 | 
Income from operations | 26.7 | | | 26.7 | | 22.5 | | | 24.3 | | 25.8 | | | 27.2 | | 25.2 | | 25.2 | 
Other income (expense), net | 2.3 | | | 0.9 | | 0.8 | | | 0.7 | | 0.9 | | | 0.8 | | 1.0 | | (0.8 | )
Income from continuing operations before income taxes | 29.0 | | | 27.6 | | 23.3 | | | 25.0 | | 26.7 | | | 28.0 | | 26.2 | | 24.4 | 
Provision for income taxes | 5.8 | | | 6.2 | | 5.6 | | | 4.5 | | 6.3 | | | 5.8 | | 4.9 | | 1.3 | 
Net income from continuing operations | 23.2 | | | 21.4 | | 17.7 | | | 20.5 | | 20.4 | | | 22.2 | | 21.3 | | 23.1 | 
Net income (loss) from discontinued operations | (1.3 | ) | | (0.4 | ) | (1.1 | ) | | 5.3 | | 0.0 | | | 0.0 | | 0.0 | | 0.0 | 
Net income | 21.9 | % | | 21.0 | % | 16.6 | % | | 25.8 | % | 20.4 | % | | 22.2 | % | 21.3 | % | 23.1 | %
Less: Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 0.0 | % | | 0.0 | % | 0.0 | % | | 0.0 | % | 0.0 | % | | 2.9 | % | 0.0 | % | 0.0 | %
Net income available to all stockholders | 21.9 | % | | 21.0 | % | 16.6 | % | | 25.8 | % | 20.4 | % | | 19.2 | % | 21.3 | % | 23.1 | %


(1) | In the second quarter of 2015, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities, and as a consequence, we revised our income tax expense for periods beginning in 2008 through the first quarter of 2015. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Capital Resources and Liquidity
As of December 31, 2015, we had $73.1 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market and other funds, including cash collateral received related to our securities lending program, fixed-income bond funds, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments issued by foreign governments, debt instruments issued by municipalities in the U.S., corporate debt securities, agency mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. From time to time, we may hold marketable equity securities obtained through acquisitions or strategic investments in private companies that subsequently go public.
As of December 31, 2015, $42.9 billion of the $73.1 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds were needed for our operations in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations.
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from our operations. As of December 31, 2015, we had unused letters of credit of approximately $752 million. We believe that our sources of funding will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by a decrease in demand for our products and services. In addition, we may make acquisitions, increase our capital expenditures, or license products and technologies complementary to our business and may need to raise additional capital through future 
37


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

debt or equity financing to provide for greater flexibility to fund these activities. Additional financing may not be available or on terms favorable to us.
We have a debt financing program of up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2015, we had $2.0 billion of commercial paper outstanding recorded as short-term debt, with a weighted-average interest rate of 0.2% that matures at various dates through February 2016. In conjunction with this program, we have a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility expiring in July 2016. The interest rate for the credit facility is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. As of December 31, 2015, we were in compliance with the financial covenant in the credit facility and no amounts were outstanding. 
We intend to align our capital structure so that debt is held at the holding company level. In January 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to issue up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper from time to time and to enter into a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility to replace Google's existing $3.0 billion revolving credit facility.  
In May 2011, we issued $3.0 billion of unsecured senior notes (2011 Notes) in three equal tranches, due in 2014, 2016, and 2021. The net proceeds from the sale of the 2011 Notes were used to repay a portion of our outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. In February 2014, we issued $1.0 billion of unsecured senior notes (2014 Notes) due in 2024, which was used to repay $1.0 billion of the first tranche of our 2011 Notes that matured in May 2014 and for general corporate purposes.
As of December 31, 2015, the outstanding notes had a total carrying value of $3.0 billion and a total estimated fair value of $3.1 billion. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the notes.
In August 2013, we entered into a $258 million capital lease obligation on certain property expiring in 2028. We intend to exercise the option to purchase the property in 2016. The effective rate of the capital lease obligation approximates the market rate.
In October 2015, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $5,099,019,513.59 of its Class C capital stock, commencing in the fourth quarter of 2015. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through the use of 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. As of December 31, 2015, Alphabet repurchased and subsequently retired $1.8 billion of its Class C capital stock. Alphabet's share repurchases in the year ended December 31, 2015 were funded by Google via a return of capital to Alphabet. In January 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase an additional amount of approximately 514 thousand shares.
For 2013, 2014 and 2015, our cash flows were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 18,659 | | | $ | 22,376 | | | $ | 26,024
Net cash used in investing activities | (13,679 | ) | | (21,055 | ) | | (23,711 | )
Net cash used in financing activities | (857 | ) | | (1,439 | ) | | (3,677 | )

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Our largest source of cash provided by our operations is advertising revenues generated by Google websites and Google Network Members' websites. Additionally, we generate cash through sales of apps and digital content, hardware products, licensing arrangements, and service fees received for cloud and apps and our Maps API. Prior to its divestiture in October 2014, we also generated cash from sales of hardware products related to the Motorola Mobile business.
Our primary uses of cash from our operating activities include payments to our Google Network Members and distribution partners, and payments for content acquisition costs. Prior to the sale of the Motorola Mobile business, our use of cash also included payment for manufacturing and inventory-related costs in the Motorola Mobile business. In addition, uses of cash from operating activities include compensation and related costs, other general corporate expenditures, and income taxes.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2014 to 2015 primarily due to increased net income adjusted for depreciation and stock-based compensation expense, and loss on sales of marketable and non-marketable securities. This is partially offset by a net decrease in cash from changes in working capital.
38


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2013 to 2014 primarily due to increased net income adjusted for depreciation and loss on disposal of property and equipment and stock-based compensation expense, and a net increase in cash from changes in working capital primarily driven by changes in prepaid revenue share, expenses, and other assets.
Cash Used in Investing Activities
Cash provided by or used in investing activities primarily consists of purchases of property and equipment, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities in our investment portfolio, investments in reverse repurchase agreements and the cash collateral received or returned from our securities lending program, as well as acquisitions and divestitures of businesses and intangible assets.
Cash used in investing activities increased from 2014 to 2015 primarily due to net increases in purchases of marketable securities, activities related to security lending and purchases of non-marketable investments. This increase was partially offset by lower spend related to acquisitions, lower investments in reverse repurchase agreements, and a decrease in capital expenditures related to our production equipment, data centers, and real estate purchases.
Cash used in investing activities increased from 2013 to 2014 primarily due to increases in capital expenditures related to our production equipment, data centers, and real estate purchases, higher spend related to acquisitions, and lower proceeds received in 2014 from divestiture of businesses compared to 2013. This increase was partially offset by a net decrease in purchases of marketable securities.
Cash Used in Financing Activities
Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of net proceeds or payments from issuance or repayments of debt, repurchases of capital stock, and net proceeds or payments and excess tax benefits from stock-based award activities.
In Alphabet, cash used in financing activities increased from 2014 to 2015 primarily driven by the repurchases of capital stock and an increase in net payments related to stock-based award activities. In Google, cash used in financing activities increased from 2014 to 2015 is primarily driven by capital transactions with Alphabet, partially offset by net payments related to stock-based award activities.
Cash used in financing activities increased from 2013 to 2014 is primarily driven by an increase in net payments related to stock-based award activities, offset partially by a decrease in net cash payments related to debt.
Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2015
The following summarizes our contractual obligations, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations, as of December 31, 2015 (in millions):

 | Payments Due By Period
 | Total | | Less than1 year | | 1-3years | | 3-5years | More than5 years
Operating lease obligations, net of sublease income amounts(1) | $ | 7,406 | | | $ | 646 | | $ | 1,573 | $ | 1,482 | $ | 3,705
Purchase obligations(2) | 1,697 | | | 946 | | | 298 | | 150 | 303 | 
Long-term debt obligations, including capital lease obligations(3) | 3,722 | | | 1,306 | | | 140 | | 140 | 2,136 | 
Other long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet(4) | 1,580 | | | 356 | | | 430 | | 367 | 427 | 
Total contractual obligations | $ | 14,405 | | | $ | 3,254 | | $ | 2,441 | $ | 2,139 | $ | 6,571


(1) | For further information, refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


(2) | Purchase obligations represent non-cancelable contractual obligations primarily related to data center operations and facility build-outs, video and other content licensing revenue sharing arrangements, as well as purchases of inventory.


(3) | For further information, refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


(4) | Other long-term liabilities represent cash obligations recorded on our consolidated balance sheets, including the short-term portion of these long-term liabilities and consist primarily of payments owed in connection with certain commercial agreements, investments and asset retirement obligations. In addition to the amounts above, we had long-term tax payable of $3.7 billion as of December 31, 2015 primarily related to uncertain tax positions. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. As a result, this amount is not included in the above table. 

39


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of December 31, 2015, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations will be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors.
Please see Note 1 of Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the summary of significant accounting policies.
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes.
Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Loss Contingencies
We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, indirect taxes, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred, and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
We evaluate, on a monthly basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both likelihood of there being and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding contingencies.
Business Combinations
We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair values 
40


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets.
Critical estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from customer relationships and acquired patents and developed technology; and discount rates. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates.
Other estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as more fully discussed in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to reporting units expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairment tests require judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. As of December 31, 2015, no impairment of goodwill has been identified.
Long-lived Assets
Long-lived assets, including property and equipment, long-term prepayments, and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows independent of other assets. An impairment loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows generated from the assets are less than their carrying amount. Measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value.
Impairment of Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities
We periodically review our marketable and non-marketable securities for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. Factors we consider to make such determination include the duration and severity of the impairment, the reason for the decline in value and the potential recovery period and our intent to sell. For marketable debt securities, we also consider whether (1) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, and (2) the amortized cost basis cannot be recovered as a result of credit losses. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net.

ITEM 7A. | QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We transact business globally in multiple currencies. Our international revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. We are a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weakening of the U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currency. As of December 31, 2015, our most significant currency exposures are the British pound, Euro, and Japanese yen.
We use foreign exchange option contracts to protect our forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate the impact of adverse currency exchange rate movements. We designate these option contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. The fair value of the option contract is separated into its intrinsic and time values. Changes in the time value are recorded in other income (expense), net. Changes in the intrinsic value are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and subsequently reclassified into revenues to offset the hedged exposures as they occur. 
We considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 20% could be experienced in the near term. If the U.S. dollar weakened by 20% as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015, the amount recorded in AOCI reflecting intrinsic value related to our 
41


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

foreign exchange options before tax effect would have been approximately $686 million and $280 million lower as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015, and the total amount of expense recorded as other income (expense), net, would have been approximately $90 million and $275 million higher in the years ended December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015. If the U.S. dollar strengthened by 20% as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015, the amount recorded in accumulated AOCI related to our foreign exchange options before tax effect would have been approximately $2.5 billion and $3.1 billion higher as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015, and the total amount of expense recorded as other income (expense), net, would have been approximately $164 million and $372 million higher in the years ended December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015. In both scenarios, the change in the intrinsic value would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in forecasted hedged revenues when recognized.
In addition, we use foreign exchange forward contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the subsidiary. These forward contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on the assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which are offset by the gains and losses on the forward contracts.
We considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. These reasonably possible adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% were applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currencies at the balance sheet dates to compute the adverse impact these changes would have had on our income before income taxes in the near term. These changes would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before income taxes of approximately $93 million and $122 million as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015. The adverse impact as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015 is after consideration of the offsetting effect of approximately $948 million and $1.1 billion from foreign exchange contracts in place for the months of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015. 
Interest Rate Risk
Our investment strategy is to achieve a return that will allow us to preserve capital and maintain liquidity requirements. We invest primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, agency mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. By policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. As of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015, unrealized losses on our marketable debt securities were primarily due to temporary interest rate fluctuations as a result of higher market interest rates compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. We account for both fixed and variable rate securities at fair value with changes on gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold. We use interest rate derivative contracts to hedge gains and losses on our securities. These derivative contracts are accounted for as hedges at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income (expense), net. 
We considered the historical volatility of short-term interest rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that an adverse change of 100 basis points could be experienced in the near term. A hypothetical 1.00% (100 basis points) increase in interest rates would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our marketable securities of approximately $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015.
42


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


ITEM 8. | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 | Page
Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 45 
Financial Statements of Alphabet Inc.: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 48 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 49 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 50 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 51 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 52 
Financial Statements of Google Inc.: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 53 
Consolidated Statements of Income | 54 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 55 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 56 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 57 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.) | 58 

The supplementary financial information required by this Item 8 is included in Item 7 under the caption “Quarterly Results of Operations.”
43


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Alphabet Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet Inc. as of December 31, 2014 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)2. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Alphabet Inc. as of December 31, 2014 and 2015, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Alphabet Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 11, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 11, 2016 

44


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Google Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Google Inc. as of December 31, 2014 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)2. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Google Inc. as of December 31, 2014 and 2015, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Google Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 11, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 11, 2016 

45


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Alphabet Inc.
We have audited Alphabet Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). Alphabet Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, Alphabet Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet Inc. as of December 31, 2014 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 of Alphabet Inc. and our report dated February 11, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 11, 2016 

46


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Google Inc.
We have audited Google Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). Google Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, Google Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Google Inc. as of December 31, 2014 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 of Google Inc. and our report dated February 11, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California 
February 11, 2016 

47


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except share and par value amounts which are reflected in thousands,
and par value per share amounts)

 | As of December 31, 2014 | | As of December 31, 2015
Assets | | | 
Current assets: | | | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 18,347 | | | $ | 16,549 
Marketable securities | 46,048 | | | 56,517 | 
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (including securities loaned of $4,058 and $4,531) | 64,395 | | | 73,066 | 
Accounts receivable, net of allowance of $225 and $296 | 9,383 | | | 11,556 | 
Receivable under reverse repurchase agreements | 875 | | | 450 | 
Income taxes receivable, net | 591 | | | 1,903 | 
Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets | 3,412 | | | 3,139 | 
Total current assets | 78,656 | | | 90,114 | 
Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, non-current | 3,187 | | | 3,181 | 
Non-marketable investments | 3,079 | | | 5,183 | 
Deferred income taxes | 176 | | | 251 | 
Property and equipment, net | 23,883 | | | 29,016 | 
Intangible assets, net | 4,607 | | | 3,847 | 
Goodwill | 15,599 | | | 15,869 | 
Total assets | $ | 129,187 | | | $ | 147,461
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity | | | 
Current liabilities: | | | 
Accounts payable | $ | 1,715 | | | $ | 1,931 
Short-term debt | 2,009 | | | 3,225 | 
Accrued compensation and benefits | 3,069 | | | 3,539 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 4,408 | | | 4,768 | 
Accrued revenue share | 1,952 | | | 2,329 | 
Securities lending payable | 2,778 | | | 2,428 | 
Deferred revenue | 752 | | | 788 | 
Income taxes payable, net | 96 | | | 302 | 
Total current liabilities | 16,779 | | | 19,310 | 
Long-term debt | 3,228 | | | 1,995 | 
Deferred revenue, non-current | 104 | | | 151 | 
Income taxes payable, non-current | 3,340 | | | 3,663 | 
Deferred income taxes | 758 | | | 189 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 1,118 | | | 1,822 | 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 11) | | | | 
Stockholders’ equity: | | | 
Convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share, 100,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding | 0 | | | 0 | 
Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.001 par value per share: 15,000,000 shares authorized (Class A 9,000,000, Class B 3,000,000, Class C 3,000,000); 680,172 (Class A 286,560, Class B 53,213, Class C 340,399) and par value of $680 (Class A $287, Class B $53, Class C $340) and 687,348 (Class A 292,297, Class B 50,295, Class C 344,756) and par value of $687 (Class A $292, Class B $50, Class C $345) shares issued and outstanding | 28,767 | | | 32,982 | 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) | 27 | | | (1,874 | )
Retained earnings | 75,066 | | | 89,223 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 103,860 | | | 120,331 | 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity | $ | 129,187 | | | $ | 147,461

See accompanying notes.
48


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share amounts)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Revenues | $ | 55,519 | | | $ | 66,001 | | $ | 74,989
Costs and expenses: | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 21,993 | | | 25,691 | | | 28,164
Research and development | 7,137 | | | 9,832 | | | 12,282
Sales and marketing | 6,554 | | | 8,131 | | | 9,047 
General and administrative | 4,432 | | | 5,851 | | | 6,136 
Total costs and expenses | 40,116 | | | 49,505 | | | 55,629
Income from operations | 15,403 | | | 16,496 | | | 19,360
Other income (expense), net | 496 | | | 763 | | | 291 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes | 15,899 | | | 17,259 | | | 19,651
Provision for income taxes | 2,739 | | | 3,639 | | | 3,303 
Net income from continuing operations | $ | 13,160 | | | $ | 13,620 | | $ | 16,348
Net income (loss) from discontinued operations | (427 | ) | | 516 | | | 0 
Net income | $ | 12,733 | | | $ | 14,136 | | $ | 16,348
Less: Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 0 | | | 0 | | | 522 
Net income available to all stockholders | $ | 12,733 | | | $ | 14,136 | | $ | 15,826
Basic net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.77 | | | $ | 20.15 | | $ | 23.11 
Discontinued operations | (0.64 | ) | | 0.76 | | | 0.00 
Basic net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 19.13 | | | $ | 20.91 | | $ | 23.11 
Basic net income (loss) per share of Class C capital stock: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.77 | | | $ | 20.15 | | $ | 24.63 
Discontinued operations | (0.64 | ) | | 0.76 | | | 0.00 
Basic net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 19.13 | | | $ | 20.91 | | $ | 24.63 
Diluted net income (loss) per share of Class A and B common stock: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.42 | | | $ | 19.82 | | $ | 22.84 
Discontinued operations | (0.63 | ) | | 0.75 | | | 0.00 
Diluted net income per share of Class A and B common stock | $ | 18.79 | | | $ | 20.57 | | $ | 22.84 
Diluted net income (loss) per share of Class C capital stock: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.42 | | | $ | 19.82 | | $ | 24.34 
Discontinued operations | (0.63 | ) | | 0.75 | | | 0.00 
Diluted net income per share of Class C capital stock | $ | 18.79 | | | $ | 20.57 | | $ | 24.34 

See accompanying notes.
49


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Net income | $ | 12,733 | | | $ | 14,136 | | | $ | 16,348
Other comprehensive income (loss): | | | | | 
Change in foreign currency translation adjustment | 89 | | | (996 | ) | | (1,067 | )
Available-for-sale investments: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | (392 | ) | | 505 | | | (715 | )
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (162 | ) | | (134 | ) | | 208 | 
Net change (net of tax effect of $212, $60, and $29) | (554 | ) | | 371 | | | (507 | )
Cash flow hedges: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains | 112 | | | 651 | | | 676 | 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net gains included in net income | (60 | ) | | (124 | ) | | (1,003 | )
Net change (net of tax effect of $30, $196, and $115) | 52 | | | 527 | | | (327 | )
Other comprehensive loss | (413 | ) | | (98 | ) | | (1,901 | )
Comprehensive income | $ | 12,320 | | | $ | 14,038 | | | $ | 14,447

See accompanying notes.
50


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands)

 | Class A and Class BCommon Stock, Class C Capital Stock andAdditional Paid-In Capital | | AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss) | | RetainedEarnings | | TotalStockholders’Equity
 | Shares | | Amount | 
Balance as of December 31, 2012 | 659,958 | | | $ | 22,835 | | | $ | 538 | | | $ | 48,197 | | $ | 71,570 
Common stock issued | 11,706 | | | 1,174 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 1,174 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | | | 3,343 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 3,343 | 
Stock-based compensation tax benefits | | | 449 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 449 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | | | (1,879 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | | | (1,879 | ) 
Net income | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 12,733 | | | 12,733 | 
Other comprehensive loss | | | 0 | | | (413 | ) | | 0 | | | (413 | ) 
Balance as of December 31, 2013 | 671,664 | | | 25,922 | | | 125 | | | 60,930 | | | 86,977 | 
Common and capital stock issued | 8,508 | | | 465 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 465 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | | | 4,279 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 4,279 | 
Stock-based compensation tax benefits | | | 625 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 625 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | | | (2,524 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | | | (2,524 | ) 
Net income | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 14,136 | | | 14,136 | 
Other comprehensive loss | | | 0 | | | (98 | ) | | 0 | | | (98 | ) 
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | 680,172 | | | 28,767 | | | 27 | | | 75,066 | | | 103,860 | 
Common and capital stock issued | 8,714 | | | 664 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 664 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | | | 5,151 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 5,151 | 
Stock-based compensation tax benefits | | | 815 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 815 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | | | (2,779 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | | | (2,779 | ) 
Repurchases of capital stock | (2,391 | ) | | (111 | ) | | 0 | | | (1,669 | ) | | (1,780 | )
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 853 | | | 475 | | | 0 | | | (522 | ) | | (47 | )
Net income | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 16,348 | | | 16,348 | 
Other comprehensive loss | | | 0 | | | (1,901 | ) | | 0 | | | (1,901 | ) 
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | 687,348 | | | $ | 32,982 | | | $ | (1,874 | ) | | $ | 89,223 | | $ | 120,331

See accompanying notes.
51


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Alphabet Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Operating activities | | | | | 
Net income | $ | 12,733 | | | $ | 14,136 | | | $ | 16,348
Adjustments: | | | | | 
Depreciation and impairment of property and equipment | 2,781 | | | 3,523 | | | 4,132 | 
Amortization and impairment of intangible assets | 1,158 | | | 1,456 | | | 931 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 3,343 | | | 4,279 | | | 5,203 | 
Excess tax benefits from stock-based award activities | (481 | ) | | (648 | ) | | (548 | )
Deferred income taxes | (437 | ) | | (104 | ) | | (179 | )
Gain on divestiture of business | (700 | ) | | (740 | ) | | 0 | 
(Gain) loss on marketable and non-marketable investments, net | (166 | ) | | (390 | ) | | 334 | 
Other | 272 | | | 192 | | | 212 | 
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions: | | | | | 
Accounts receivable | (1,307 | ) | | (1,641 | ) | | (2,094 | )
Income taxes, net | 588 | | | 591 | | | (179 | )
Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets | (930 | ) | | 459 | | | (318 | )
Accounts payable | 605 | | | 436 | | | 203 | 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities | 713 | | | 757 | | | 1,597 | 
Accrued revenue share | 254 | | | 245 | | | 339 | 
Deferred revenue | 233 | | | (175 | ) | | 43 | 
Net cash provided by operating activities | 18,659 | | | 22,376 | | | 26,024 | 
Investing activities | | | | | 
Purchases of property and equipment | (7,358 | ) | | (10,959 | ) | | (9,915 | )
Purchases of marketable securities | (45,444 | ) | | (56,310 | ) | | (74,368 | )
Maturities and sales of marketable securities | 38,314 | | | 51,315 | | | 62,905 | 
Purchases of non-marketable investments | (569 | ) | | (1,227 | ) | | (2,172 | )
Cash collateral related to securities lending | (299 | ) | | 1,403 | | | (350 | )
Investments in reverse repurchase agreements | 600 | | | (775 | ) | | 425 | 
Proceeds from divestiture of business | 2,525 | | | 386 | | | 0 | 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangibles and other assets | (1,448 | ) | | (4,888 | ) | | (236 | )
Net cash used in investing activities | (13,679 | ) | | (21,055 | ) | | (23,711 | )
Financing activities | | | | | 
Net payments related to stock-based award activities | (781 | ) | | (2,069 | ) | | (2,375 | )
Excess tax benefits from stock-based award activities | 481 | | | 648 | | | 548 | 
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 0 | | | 0 | | | (47 | )
Repurchases of capital stock | 0 | | | 0 | | | (1,780 | )
Proceeds from issuance of debt, net of costs | 10,768 | | | 11,625 | | | 13,705 | 
Repayments of debt | (11,325 | ) | | (11,643 | ) | | (13,728 | )
Net cash used in financing activities | (857 | ) | | (1,439 | ) | | (3,677 | )
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents | (3 | ) | | (433 | ) | | (434 | )
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents | 4,120 | | | (551 | ) | | (1,798 | )
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period | 14,778 | | | 18,898 | | | 18,347 | 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period | $ | 18,898 | | | $ | 18,347 | | | $ | 16,549
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information | | | | | 
Cash paid for taxes | $ | 1,932 | | | $ | 2,819 | | | $ | 3,338 
Cash paid for interest | 72 | | | 86 | | | 96 | 

See accompanying notes.
52


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Google Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except share and par value amounts which are reflected in thousands,
and par value per share amounts)

 | As of December 31, 2014 | | As of December 31, 2015
Assets | | | 
Current assets: | | | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 18,347 | | | $ | 16,549 
Marketable securities | 46,048 | | | 56,517 | 
Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (including securities loaned of $4,058 and $4,531) | 64,395 | | | 73,066 | 
Accounts receivable, net of allowance of $225 and $296 | 9,383 | | | 11,556 | 
Receivable under reverse repurchase agreements | 875 | | | 450 | 
Income taxes receivable, net | 591 | | | 1,903 | 
Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets | 3,412 | | | 3,139 | 
Total current assets | 78,656 | | | 90,114 | 
Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, non-current | 3,187 | | | 3,181 | 
Non-marketable investments | 3,079 | | | 5,183 | 
Deferred income taxes | 176 | | | 251 | 
Property and equipment, net | 23,883 | | | 29,016 | 
Intangible assets, net | 4,607 | | | 3,847 | 
Goodwill | 15,599 | | | 15,869 | 
Total assets | $ | 129,187 | | | $ | 147,461
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity | | | 
Current liabilities: | | | 
Accounts payable | $ | 1,715 | | | $ | 1,931 
Short-term debt | 2,009 | | | 3,225 | 
Accrued compensation and benefits | 3,069 | | | 3,539 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 4,408 | | | 4,768 | 
Accrued revenue share | 1,952 | | | 2,329 | 
Securities lending payable | 2,778 | | | 2,428 | 
Deferred revenue | 752 | | | 788 | 
Income taxes payable, net | 96 | | | 302 | 
Total current liabilities | 16,779 | | | 19,310 | 
Long-term debt | 3,228 | | | 1,995 | 
Deferred revenue, non-current | 104 | | | 151 | 
Income taxes payable, non-current | 3,340 | | | 3,663 | 
Deferred income taxes | 758 | | | 189 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 1,118 | | | 1,822 | 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 11) | | | | 
Stockholders’ equity: | | | 
Convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share; 100,000 shares authorized, no shares issued and outstanding; 0.5 shares authorized, no shares issued and outstanding | 0 | | | 0 | 
Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.001 par value per share: 15,000,000 shares authorized (Class A 9,000,000, Class B 3,000,000, Class C 3,000,000); 680,172 (Class A 286,560, Class B 53,213, Class C 340,399), and par value of $680 (Class A $287, Class B $53, Class C $340); and 1.5 shares authorized (Class A 0.5, Class B 0.5, Class C 0.5); 0.3 (Class A 0.1, Class B 0.1, Class C 0.1), and par value of $0, shares issued and outstanding | 28,767 | | | 31,313 | 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) | 27 | | | (1,874 | )
Retained earnings | 75,066 | | | 90,892 | 
Total stockholders’ equity | 103,860 | | | 120,331 | 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity | $ | 129,187 | | | $ | 147,461

See accompanying notes.
53


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Google Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Revenues | $ | 55,519 | | | $ | 66,001 | | $ | 74,989
Costs and expenses: | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | 21,993 | | | 25,691 | | | 28,164
Research and development | 7,137 | | | 9,832 | | | 12,282
Sales and marketing | 6,554 | | | 8,131 | | | 9,047 
General and administrative | 4,432 | | | 5,851 | | | 6,136 
Total costs and expenses | 40,116 | | | 49,505 | | | 55,629
Income from operations | 15,403 | | | 16,496 | | | 19,360
Other income (expense), net | 496 | | | 763 | | | 291 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes | 15,899 | | | 17,259 | | | 19,651
Provision for income taxes | 2,739 | | | 3,639 | | | 3,303 
Net income from continuing operations | $ | 13,160 | | | $ | 13,620 | | $ | 16,348
Net income (loss) from discontinued operations | (427 | ) | | 516 | | | 0 
Net income | $ | 12,733 | | | $ | 14,136 | | $ | 16,348
Less: Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 0 | | | 0 | | | 522 
Net income available to all stockholders | $ | 12,733 | | | $ | 14,136 | | $ | 15,826

See accompanying notes.
54


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Google Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Net income | $ | 12,733 | | | $ | 14,136 | | | $ | 16,348
Other comprehensive income (loss): | | | | | 
Change in foreign currency translation adjustment | 89 | | | (996 | ) | | (1,067 | )
Available-for-sale investments: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) | (392 | ) | | 505 | | | (715 | )
Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income | (162 | ) | | (134 | ) | | 208 | 
Net change (net of tax effect of $212, $60, and $29) | (554 | ) | | 371 | | | (507 | )
Cash flow hedges: | | | | | 
Change in net unrealized gains | 112 | | | 651 | | | 676 | 
Less: reclassification adjustment for net gains included in net income | (60 | ) | | (124 | ) | | (1,003 | )
Net change (net of tax effect of $30, $196, and $115) | 52 | | | 527 | | | (327 | )
Other comprehensive loss | (413 | ) | | (98 | ) | | (1,901 | )
Comprehensive income | $ | 12,320 | | | $ | 14,038 | | | $ | 14,447

See accompanying notes.
55


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Google Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands)

 | Class A and Class BCommon Stock, Class C Capital Stock andAdditional Paid-In Capital | | AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss) | | RetainedEarnings | | TotalStockholders’Equity
 | Shares | | Amount | 
Balance as of December 31, 2012 | 659,958 | | | $ | 22,835 | | | $ | 538 | | | $ | 48,197 | | $ | 71,570 
Common stock issued | 11,706 | | | 1,174 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 1,174 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | | | 3,343 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 3,343 | 
Stock-based compensation tax benefits | | | 449 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 449 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | | | (1,879 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | | | (1,879 | ) 
Net income | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 12,733 | | | 12,733 | 
Other comprehensive loss | | | 0 | | | (413 | ) | | 0 | | | (413 | ) 
Balance as of December 31, 2013 | 671,664 | | | 25,922 | | | 125 | | | 60,930 | | | 86,977 | 
Common and capital stock issued | 8,508 | | | 465 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 465 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | | | 4,279 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 4,279 | 
Stock-based compensation tax benefits | | | 625 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 625 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | | | (2,524 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | | | (2,524 | ) 
Net income | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 14,136 | | | 14,136 | 
Other comprehensive loss | | | 0 | | | (98 | ) | | 0 | | | (98 | ) 
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | 680,172 | | | 28,767 | | | 27 | | | 75,066 | | | 103,860 | 
Common and capital stock issued | 6,659 | | | 331 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 331 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | | | 5,151 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 5,151 | 
Stock-based compensation tax benefits | | | 815 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 815 | 
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units | | | (1,954 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | | | (1,954 | ) 
Alphabet share exchange | (687,684 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Capital transactions with Alphabet | | | (2,272 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | | | (2,272 | ) 
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 853 | | | 475 | | | 0 | | | (522 | ) | | (47 | )
Net income | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 16,348 | | | 16,348 | 
Other comprehensive loss | | | 0 | | | (1,901 | ) | | 0 | | | (1,901 | ) 
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | 0 | | | $ | 31,313 | | | $ | (1,874 | ) | | $ | 90,892 | | $ | 120,331

See accompanying notes.
56


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Google Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Operating activities | | | | | 
Net income | $ | 12,733 | | | $ | 14,136 | | | $ | 16,348
Adjustments: | | | | | 
Depreciation and impairment of property and equipment | 2,781 | | | 3,523 | | | 4,132 | 
Amortization and impairment of intangible assets | 1,158 | | | 1,456 | | | 931 | 
Stock-based compensation expense | 3,343 | | | 4,279 | | | 5,203 | 
Excess tax benefits from stock-based award activities | (481 | ) | | (648 | ) | | (548 | )
Deferred income taxes | (437 | ) | | (104 | ) | | (179 | )
Gain on divestiture of business | (700 | ) | | (740 | ) | | 0 | 
(Gain) loss on marketable and non-marketable investments, net | (166 | ) | | (390 | ) | | 334 | 
Other | 272 | | | 192 | | | 212 | 
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions: | | | | | 
Accounts receivable | (1,307 | ) | | (1,641 | ) | | (2,094 | )
Income taxes, net | 588 | | | 591 | | | (179 | )
Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets | (930 | ) | | 459 | | | (318 | )
Accounts payable | 605 | | | 436 | | | 203 | 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities | 713 | | | 757 | | | 1,597 | 
Accrued revenue share | 254 | | | 245 | | | 339 | 
Deferred revenue | 233 | | | (175 | ) | | 43 | 
Net cash provided by operating activities | 18,659 | | | 22,376 | | | 26,024 | 
Investing activities | | | | | 
Purchases of property and equipment | (7,358 | ) | | (10,959 | ) | | (9,915 | )
Purchases of marketable securities | (45,444 | ) | | (56,310 | ) | | (74,368 | )
Maturities and sales of marketable securities | 38,314 | | | 51,315 | | | 62,905 | 
Purchases of non-marketable investments | (569 | ) | | (1,227 | ) | | (2,172 | )
Cash collateral related to securities lending | (299 | ) | | 1,403 | | | (350 | )
Investments in reverse repurchase agreements | 600 | | | (775 | ) | | 425 | 
Proceeds from divestiture of business | 2,525 | | | 386 | | | 0 | 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangibles and other assets | (1,448 | ) | | (4,888 | ) | | (236 | )
Net cash used in investing activities | (13,679 | ) | | (21,055 | ) | | (23,711 | )
Financing activities | | | | | 
Net payments related to stock-based award activities | (781 | ) | | (2,069 | ) | | (1,612 | )
Excess tax benefits from stock-based award activities | 481 | | | 648 | | | 548 | 
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders | 0 | | | 0 | | | (47 | )
Capital transactions with Alphabet | 0 | | | 0 | | | (2,543 | )
Proceeds from issuance of debt, net of costs | 10,768 | | | 11,625 | | | 13,705 | 
Repayments of debt | (11,325 | ) | | (11,643 | ) | | (13,728 | )
Net cash used in financing activities | (857 | ) | | (1,439 | ) | | (3,677 | )
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents | (3 | ) | | (433 | ) | | (434 | )
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents | 4,120 | | | (551 | ) | | (1,798 | )
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period | 14,778 | | | 18,898 | | | 18,347 | 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period | $ | 18,898 | | | $ | 18,347 | | | $ | 16,549
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information | | | | | 
Cash paid for taxes | $ | 1,932 | | | $ | 2,819 | | | $ | 3,338 
Cash paid for interest | 72 | | | 86 | | | 96 | 

See accompanying notes.
57


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Nature of Operations
We were incorporated in California in September 1998 and re-incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2003. We generate revenues primarily by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising.
On April 17, 2013, we sold the Motorola Home business (Motorola Home) to Arris Group, Inc. (Arris). The financial results of Motorola Home are presented as net income (loss) from discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2013. See Note 9 for further discussion of the sale.
On April 2, 2014, we completed a two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend (the Stock Split). All references made to share or per share amounts in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and applicable disclosures have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the Stock Split. See Note 12 for additional information about the Stock Split.
On October 29, 2014, we sold the Motorola Mobile business (Motorola Mobile) to Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo). The financial results of Motorola Mobile are presented as net income (loss) from discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014. See Note 9 for further discussion of the sale.
On August 10, 2015, we announced plans to create a new public holding company, Alphabet Inc. (Alphabet), and a new operating structure. On October 2, 2015, we implemented the holding company reorganization, and as a result, Alphabet became the successor issuer to Google Inc. (Google).
The implementation of the holding company reorganization on October 2, 2015 was accounted for as a merger under common control. Alphabet has recognized the assets and liabilities of Google at carryover basis. The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet present comparative information for prior years on a combined basis, as if both Alphabet and Google were under common control for all periods presented.
The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto are being presented in a combined report being filed by two separate registrants: Alphabet and Google. The Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are the only statements with differences between Alphabet and Google.  The differences relate to transactions between Alphabet and Google which are accounted for as capital transactions. Refer to Note 13 for additional information.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet and Google include the accounts of Alphabet and Google, respectively, and all wholly owned subsidiaries as well as all variable interest entities where we are the primary beneficiary. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. 
Use of Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the accounts receivable and sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, income taxes, and contingent liabilities, among others. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
58


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Revenue Recognition
The following table presents our revenues by segment and revenue source (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Google segment | | | | | 
Google websites | $ | 37,422 | | | $ | 45,085 | | $ | 52,357
Google Network Members' websites (1) | 13,650 | | | 14,539 | | | 15,033
Google advertising revenues | 51,072 | | | 59,624 | | | 67,390
Google other revenues (1) | 4,435 | | | 6,050 | | | 7,151 
Google segment revenues | $ | 55,507 | | | $ | 65,674 | | $ | 74,541
Other Bets | | | | | 
Other Bets revenues | $ | 12 | | | $ | 327 | | $ | 448 
Consolidated revenues | $ | 55,519 | | | $ | 66,001 | | $ | 74,989


(1) | Prior period amounts have been adjusted to reflect the reclassification primarily related to DoubleClick ad serving software revenues from Google other revenues to Advertising Revenues from Google Network Members' websites to conform with current period presentation.

We generate revenues primarily by delivering performance and brand advertising. Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Brand advertising enhances users’ awareness of and affinity with advertisers’ products and services, through videos, text, images, and other ads that run across various devices. 
Google AdWords is our auction-based advertising program that enables performance advertisers to place text-based and display ads on Google websites and our Google Network Members’ websites. Google AdSense refers to the online programs through which we distribute our advertisers’ AdWords ads for display on our Google Network Members’ websites. Most of our customers pay us on a cost-per-click basis, which means that an advertiser pays us only when a user engages with the ads by clicking on an ad on Google websites or Google Network Members' websites or by viewing YouTube engagement ads like TrueView (counted as an engagement when the user chooses not to skip the ad). We also offer advertising on a cost-per-impression basis that enables our brand advertisers to pay us based on the number of times their ads display on Google websites and our Google Network Members’ websites as specified by the advertisers.
Revenue from advertising is recognized when the services have been provided or delivered, the fees we charge are fixed or determinable, we and our advertisers or other customers understand the specific nature and terms of the agreed upon transactions, and collectability is reasonably assured. We recognize as revenues the fees charged to advertisers each time a user clicks on one of the ads that appears next to the search results or content on Google websites or our Google Network Members’ websites. For those advertisers using our cost-per-impression pricing, we recognize as revenues the fees charged to advertisers each time their ads are displayed on Google websites or our Google Network Members’ websites. We report our Google AdSense revenues and traffic acquisition costs due to our Google Network Members on a gross basis principally because we are the primary obligor to our advertisers.
Revenue from hardware sales to end customers or through distribution channels is generally recognized when products have been shipped, risk of loss has transferred to the customer, objective evidence exists that customer acceptance provisions have been met, no significant obligations remain and allowances for discounts, price protection, returns and customer incentives can be reasonably and reliably estimated. Revenues are reported net of these allowances. Where these allowances cannot be reasonably and reliably estimated, we recognize revenue at the time the product sells through the distribution channel to the end customer or when the return period elapsed, as applicable.
For the sale of certain third-party products and services, we evaluate whether it is appropriate to recognize revenue based on the gross amount billed to the customers or the net amount earned as revenue share. Generally, when we record revenue on a gross basis, we are the primary obligor in a transaction, and have also considered other factors, including whether we are subject to inventory risk or have latitude in establishing prices. 
For multi-element arrangements, including those that contain software essential to hardware products’ functionality and services, we allocate revenue to each unit of accounting based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, we use a hierarchy to determine the selling prices to be used for allocating revenue: (i) vendor-specific objective 
59


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price, and (iii) best estimate of the selling price (ESP). VSOE generally exists only when we sell the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by us for that deliverable. ESPs reflect our best estimates of what the selling price of the deliverable would be if it was sold regularly on a stand-alone basis.
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received in advance of our performance in the underlying agreement on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of traffic acquisition costs which are the advertising revenues shared with our Google Network Members and the amounts paid to our distribution partners who distribute our browser or otherwise direct search queries to our website.
Additionally, other costs of revenues includes the following:

• | The expenses associated with the operation of our data centers (including depreciation, labor, energy, and bandwidth costs);


• | Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to certain content providers from whom we license their video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we share most of the fees these sales generate with content providers or pay a fixed fee to these content providers);


• | Credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions;


• | Stock-based compensation expense;


• | Revenue share payments to mobile carriers;


• | Inventory costs for hardware we sell; and


• | Amortization of certain intangible assets.

Stock-based Compensation
Restricted stock units (RSUs) are measured based on the fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant. Shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the minimum statutory tax withholding to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, the actual number of shares issued will be fewer than the actual number of RSUs outstanding. We record the liability for withholding amounts to be paid by us primarily as a reduction to additional paid-in capital when paid.
For stock option awards, we determined fair value using the Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) option pricing model on the date of grant.
Stock-based compensation includes awards we expect to settle in Alphabet stock as well as awards we will ultimately settle in cash. We recognize stock-based compensation, less an estimate for forfeitures, using the straight-line method over the requisite service period. Additionally, stock-based compensation for liability classified awards reflect changes in fair value during the requisite service period. 
We include as part of cash flows from financing activities the benefits of tax deductions in excess of the tax-effected compensation of the related stock-based awards for options exercised and RSUs vested during the period. During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015, the amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options was $1,174 million, $465 million, and $393 million, respectively. 
We have elected to account for the indirect effects of stock-based awards -- primarily the research and development tax credit -- through the Consolidated Statements of Income. Total direct tax benefit realized, including the excess tax benefit, from stock-based award activities during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015, was $1,195 million, $1,356 million, and $1,544 million, respectively. 
Certain Risks and Concentrations
Our revenues are primarily derived from online advertising, the market for which is highly competitive and rapidly changing. In addition, our revenues are generated from a multitude of vertical market segments in countries around the world. Significant changes in this industry or changes in customer buying or advertiser spending behavior could adversely affect our operating results.
We are subject to concentrations of credit risk principally from cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. Cash equivalents and marketable securities consist primarily of time deposits, money market and other funds, including cash collateral received related to our securities lending program, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments issued by foreign governments and municipalities in the U.S., corporate securities, agency mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. 
60


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from customers located around the world. In 2013, 2014, and 2015, we generated approximately 46%, 45%, and 46% of our revenues from customers based in the U.S., with the majority of revenues from customers outside of the U.S. located in Europe and Japan. We perform ongoing evaluations to determine customer credit and we limit the amount of credit we extend, but generally we do not require collateral from our customers. We maintain reserves for estimated credit losses and these losses have generally been within our expectations.
No individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than 10% of our revenues in 2013, 2014, or 2015.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Our financial assets and financial liabilities that include cash equivalents, marketable securities, foreign currency and interest rate derivative contracts, and non-marketable debt securities are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. We measure certain financial assets at fair value for disclosure purposes, as well as, on a nonrecurring basis when they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Our other current financial assets and our other current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying value.
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured and classified in accordance with a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the observability of the inputs available in the market used to measure fair value:
Level 1 - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2 - Include other inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activities.
The fair value hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. 
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
We invest all excess cash primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, agency mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments.
We classify all investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and have stated maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase as cash equivalents and those with stated maturities of greater than three months as marketable securities.
We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. We have classified and accounted for our marketable securities as available-for-sale. After consideration of our risk versus reward objectives, as well as our liquidity requirements, we may sell these securities prior to their stated maturities. As we view these securities as available to support current operations, we classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond 12 months as current assets under the caption marketable securities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. We carry these securities at fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, as a component of stockholders’ equity, except for unrealized losses determined to be other-than-temporary, which we record within other income (expense), net. We determine any realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable securities on a specific identification method, and we record such gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net.
Non-Marketable Investments
We have accounted for non-marketable equity investments either under the equity or cost method. Investments through which we exercise significant influence but do not have control over the investee are accounted for under the equity method. Investments through which we are not able to exercise significant influence over the investee are accounted for under the cost method.
61


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

We have accounted for our non-marketable investments that meet the definition of a debt security as available-for-sale securities. Since these securities do not have contractual maturity dates and we do not intend to liquidate them in the next 12 months, we have classified them as non-current assets on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Variable Interest Entities
We make a determination at the start of each arrangement whether an entity in which we have made an investment is considered a Variable Interest Entity (“VIE”). We consolidate VIEs in which we have a controlling financial interest. If we do not have a controlling financial interest in a VIE, we account for the investment under either the equity or cost method.
Impairment of Marketable and Non-Marketable Investments
We periodically review our marketable and non-marketable investments for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. Factors we consider to make such determination include the duration and severity of the impairment, the reason for the decline in value and the potential recovery period and our intent to sell. For debt securities, we also consider whether (1) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, and (2) the amortized cost basis cannot be recovered as a result of credit losses. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net.
Accounts Receivable
We record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount and we normally do not charge interest. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to reserve for potentially uncollectible receivables. We review the accounts receivable by amounts due by customers which are past due to identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. In determining the amount of the reserve, we make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. We also maintain a sales allowance to reserve for potential credits issued to customers. We determine the amount of the reserve based on historical credits issued.
Property and Equipment
We account for property and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally two to five years. We depreciate buildings over periods up to 25 years. We amortize leasehold improvements over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets. Construction in progress is the construction or development of property and equipment that have not yet been placed in service for our intended use. Depreciation for equipment commences once it is placed in service and depreciation for buildings and leasehold improvements commences once they are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated.
Software Development Costs
We expense software development costs, including costs to develop software products or the software component of products to be marketed to external users, before technological feasibility is reached. Technological feasibility is typically reached shortly before the release of such products and as a result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented.
Software development costs also include costs to develop software to be used solely to meet internal needs and cloud based applications used to deliver our services. We capitalize development costs related to these software applications once the preliminary project stage is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented.
Business Combinations
We include the results of operations of the businesses that we acquire as of the respective dates of acquisition. We allocate the fair value of the purchase price of our acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of the purchase price over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill.
Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets
We review property and equipment, long-term prepayments and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be 
62


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets or the asset group are expected to generate. If the assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value. In 2014, we recorded impairments of intangible assets, including an impairment of $378 million in the third quarter of 2014 related to a patent licensing royalty asset. Impairments of intangible assets were not material in 2015.
We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. No goodwill impairment has been identified in any of the years presented.
Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We amortize our acquired intangible assets on a straight-line basis with definite lives over periods ranging from one to twelve years.
Income Taxes
We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which we recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based on provisions of enacted tax law. We evaluate the realization of our deferred tax assets based on all available evidence and establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more-likely-than-not that they will not be realized.
We recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more-likely-than not that, based on technical merits, the position will be sustained upon examination. The tax benefits of the position recognized in the financial statements are then measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. In addition, we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the income tax provision.
Foreign Currency
Generally, the functional currency of our international subsidiaries is the local currency. We translate the financial statements of these subsidiaries to U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. We record translation gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income as a component of stockholders’ equity. We reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion of the transaction currency to functional currency as a component of foreign currency exchange losses in other income (expense), net.
Advertising and Promotional Expenses
We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $2,389 million, $3,004 million, and $3,186 million.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 (ASU 2014-09) "Revenue from Contracts with Customers." ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in “Revenue Recognition (Topic 605)”, and requires entities to recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. As currently issued and amended, ASU 2014-09 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period, though early adoption is permitted for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 on our consolidated financial statements, implementing accounting system changes related to the adoption, and considering additional disclosure requirements.
In June 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-10 (ASU 2014-10) "Development Stage Entities (Topic 915): Elimination of Certain Financial Reporting Requirements, Including an Amendment to Variable Interest Entities Guidance in Topic 810, Consolidation." ASU 2014-10 removes the definition of a development stage entity from the Master Glossary of the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) thereby removing the financial reporting distinction between development stage entities and other reporting entities. The additional elimination of related consolidation guidance will require companies with interests in development stage entities to reassess whether such entities are variable interest entities under ASC Topic 810, Consolidation. We will adopt this standard in the first quarter 
63


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

of 2016 on a retrospective basis. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In February 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-02 (ASU 2015-02) "Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis." ASU 2015-02 changes the analysis that a reporting entity must perform to determine whether it should consolidate certain types of legal entities. We will adopt this standard in the first quarter of 2016 on a retrospective basis. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated statement of operations or consolidated balance sheet, but it may result in additional disclosures.
In November 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-17 (ASU 2015-17) “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes”.  ASU 2015-17 simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by eliminating the separate classification of deferred income tax liabilities and assets into current and noncurrent amounts in the consolidated balance sheet statement of financial position. The amendments in the update require that all deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in the consolidated balance sheet. The amendments in this update are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods therein and may be applied either prospectively or retrospectively to all periods presented. Early adoption is permitted. We have early adopted this standard in the fourth quarter of 2015 on a retrospective basis. Prior periods have been retrospectively adjusted. 
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2015-17, the Company made the following adjustments to the 2014 balance sheet: a $1,322 million decrease to current deferred tax assets, a $83 million increase to noncurrent deferred tax asset, a $26 million decrease to current deferred tax liability, and a decrease of $1,213 million to noncurrent deferred tax liability.
In January 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01 (ASU 2016-01) "Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." ASU 2016-01 amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure for financial instruments. With respect to our consolidated financial statements, the most significant impact relates to the accounting for equity investments. It will impact the disclosure and presentation of financial assets and liabilities. ASU 2016-01 is effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption by public entities is permitted only for certain provisions. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on our consolidated financial statements.
Revision of Previously Issued Financial Statements
In the second quarter of 2015, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities, and as a consequence, we revised our income tax expense for periods beginning in 2008 through the first quarter of 2015 in the cumulative amount of $711 million. We evaluated the materiality of the income tax expense impact quantitatively and qualitatively and concluded it was not material to any of the prior periods impacted and that correction of income tax expense as an out of period adjustment in the quarter ended June 30, 2015 would not be material to our consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2015. Consolidated revenues are not impacted. We elected to revise previously issued consolidated financial statements for the periods impacted. Refer to Note 17 for additional information.
Prior Period Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
Note 2. Financial Instruments
We classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities within Level 1 or Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we use quoted market prices or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs to determine their fair value. We classify our foreign currency and interest rate derivative contracts primarily within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments.
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
 The following tables summarize our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities by significant investment categories as of December 31, 2014 and 2015 (in millions):
64


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


 | As of December 31, 2014
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Cash | $ | 9,863 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 9,863 | | $ | 9,863 | $ | 0 
Level 1: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Money market and other funds | 2,532 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 2,532 | | 2,532 | | 0 | 
U.S. government notes | 15,320 | | | 37 | | | (4 | ) | | 15,353 | | 1,128 | | 14,225 | 
Marketable equity securities | 988 | | | 428 | | | (64 | ) | | 1,352 | | 0 | | 1,352 | 
 | 18,840 | | | 465 | | | (68 | ) | | 19,237 | | 3,660 | | 15,577 | 
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | 2,409 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 2,409 | | 2,309 | | 100 | 
Money market and other funds(2) | 1,762 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 1,762 | | 1,762 | | 0 | 
Fixed-income bond funds(3) | 385 | | | 0 | | | (38 | ) | | 347 | | 0 | | 347 | 
U.S. government agencies | 2,327 | | | 8 | | | (1 | ) | | 2,334 | | 750 | | 1,584 | 
Foreign government bonds | 1,828 | | | 22 | | | (10 | ) | | 1,840 | | 0 | | 1,840 | 
Municipal securities | 3,370 | | | 33 | | | (6 | ) | | 3,397 | | 3 | | 3,394 | 
Corporate debt securities | 11,499 | | | 114 | | | (122 | ) | | 11,491 | | 0 | | 11,491 | 
Agency mortgage-backed securities | 8,196 | | | 109 | | | (42 | ) | | 8,263 | | 0 | | 8,263 | 
Asset-backed securities | 3,456 | | | 1 | | | (5 | ) | | 3,452 | | 0 | | 3,452 | 
 | 35,232 | | | 287 | | | (224 | ) | | 35,295 | | 4,824 | | 30,471 | 
Total | $ | 63,935 | | | $ | 752 | | | $ | (292 | ) | $ | 64,395 | | $ | 18,347 | $ | 46,048


 | As of December 31, 2015
 | AdjustedCost | | GrossUnrealizedGains | | GrossUnrealizedLosses | | FairValue | | Cash andCashEquivalents | | MarketableSecurities
Cash | $ | 7,380 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 7,380 | | $ | 7,380 | $ | 0 
Level 1: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Money market and other funds | 5,623 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 5,623 | | 5,623 | | 0 | 
U.S. government notes | 20,922 | | | 27 | | | (48 | ) | | 20,901 | | 258 | | 20,643 | 
Marketable equity securities | 692 | | | 155 | | | 0 | | | 847 | | 0 | | 847 | 
 | 27,237 | | | 182 | | | (48 | ) | | 27,371 | | 5,881 | | 21,490 | 
Level 2: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Time deposits(1) | 3,223 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 3,223 | | 2,012 | | 1,211 | 
Money market and other funds(2) | 1,140 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 1,140 | | 1,140 | | 0 | 
Fixed-income bond funds(3) | 219 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | | 219 | | 0 | | 219 | 
U.S. government agencies | 1,367 | | | 2 | | | (3 | ) | | 1,366 | | 0 | | 1,366 | 
Foreign government bonds | 2,242 | | | 14 | | | (23 | ) | | 2,233 | | 0 | | 2,233 | 
Municipal securities | 3,812 | | | 47 | | | (4 | ) | | 3,855 | | 0 | | 3,855 | 
Corporate debt securities | 13,809 | | | 53 | | | (278 | ) | | 13,584 | | 136 | | 13,448 | 
Agency mortgage-backed securities | 9,680 | | | 48 | | | (57 | ) | | 9,671 | | 0 | | 9,671 | 
Asset-backed securities | 3,032 | | | 0 | | | (8 | ) | | 3,024 | | 0 | | 3,024 | 
 | 38,524 | | | 164 | | | (373 | ) | | 38,315 | | 3,288 | | 35,027 | 
Total | $ | 73,141 | | | $ | 346 | | | $ | (421 | ) | $ | 73,066 | | $ | 16,549 | $ | 56,517


(1) | The majority of our time deposits are foreign deposits.


(2) | The balances as of December 31, 2014 and 2015 were related to cash collateral received in connection with our securities lending program, which was invested in reverse repurchase agreements maturing within three months. See section titled "Securities Lending Program" below for further discussion of this program.


(3) | Fixed-income bond funds consist of mutual funds that primarily invest in corporate and government bonds.

We determine realized gains or losses on the marketable securities on a specific identification method. We recognized gross realized gains of $416 million, $238 million, and $357 million for the years ended December 31, 
65


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

2013, 2014, and 2015. We recognized gross realized losses of $258 million, $85 million, and $565 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015. We reflect these gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net, in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of our investments in marketable debt securities, accounted for as available-for-sale securities and classified by the contractual maturity date of the securities (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2015
Due in 1 year | $ | 7,900 
Due in 1 year through 5 years | 30,141 | 
Due in 5 years through 10 years | 7,199 | 
Due after 10 years | 10,211 | 
Total | $ | 55,451

The following tables present gross unrealized losses and fair values for those investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2014 and 2015, aggregated by investment category and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position (in millions): 

 | As of December 31, 2014
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
U.S. government notes | $ | 4,490 | | | $ | (4 | ) | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 4,490 | $ | (4 | )
U.S. government agencies | 830 | | | (1 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 830 | | | (1 | )
Foreign government bonds | 255 | | | (7 | ) | | 43 | | (3 | ) | 298 | | | (10 | )
Municipal securities | 877 | | | (3 | ) | | 174 | | (3 | ) | 1,051 | | | (6 | )
Corporate debt securities | 5,851 | | | (112 | ) | | 225 | | (10 | ) | 6,076 | | | (122 | )
Agency mortgage-backed securities | 609 | | | (1 | ) | | 2,168 | | (41 | ) | 2,777 | | | (42 | )
Asset-backed securities | 2,388 | | | (4 | ) | | 174 | | (1 | ) | 2,562 | | | (5 | )
Fixed-income bond funds | 347 | | | (38 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 347 | | | (38 | )
Marketable equity securities | 690 | | | (64 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 690 | | | (64 | )
Total | $ | 16,337 | | | $ | (234 | ) | $ | 2,784 | | $ | (58 | ) | | $ | 19,121 | $ | (292 | )


 | As of December 31, 2015
 | Less than 12 Months | | 12 Months or Greater | | Total 
 | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss | Fair Value | | UnrealizedLoss
U.S. government notes | $ | 13,757 | | | $ | (48 | ) | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 13,757 | $ | (48 | )
U.S. government agencies | 864 | | | (3 | ) | | 0 | | 0 | | 864 | | | (3 | )
Foreign government bonds | 885 | | | (18 | ) | | 36 | | (5 | ) | 921 | | | (23 | )
Municipal securities | 1,116 | | | (3 | ) | | 41 | | (1 | ) | 1,157 | | | (4 | )
Corporate debt securities | 9,192 | | | (202 | ) | | 784 | | (76 | ) | 9,976 | | | (278 | )
Agency mortgage-backed securities | 5,783 | | | (34 | ) | | 721 | | (23 | ) | 6,504 | | | (57 | )
Asset-backed securities | 2,508 | | | (7 | ) | | 386 | | (1 | ) | 2,894 | | | (8 | )
Total | $ | 34,105 | | | $ | (315 | ) | $ | 1,968 | | $ | (106 | ) | | $ | 36,073 | $ | (421 | )

During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment loss. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized $281 million of other-than-temporary impairment losses related to our marketable equity securities and fixed-income bond funds. Those losses are included in gains (losses) on marketable securities, net as a component of other income (expense), net, in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 10 for further details on other income (expense), net.
Securities Lending Program
66


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

From time to time, we enter into securities lending agreements with financial institutions to enhance investment income. We loan certain securities which are collateralized in the form of cash or securities. Cash collateral is usually invested in reverse repurchase agreements which are collateralized in the form of securities. 
We classify loaned securities as cash equivalents or marketable securities and record the cash collateral as an asset with a corresponding liability in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. We classify reverse repurchase agreements maturing within three months as cash equivalents and those longer than three months as receivable under reverse repurchase agreements in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. For security collateral received, we do not record an asset or liability except in the event of counterparty default. 
Our securities lending transactions were accounted for as secured borrowings with significant investment categories as follows (in millions): 

 | As of December 31, 2015 
 | Remaining Contractual Maturity of the Agreements
Securities Lending Transactions | Overnight and Continuous | | Up to 30 days | | 30 - 90 Days | | Greater Than 90 Days | Total
U.S. government notes | $ | 1,322 | | | $ | 31 | | $ | 0 | $ | 306 | $ | 1,659
U.S. government agencies | 504 | | | 77 | | | 0 | | 0 | 581 | 
Corporate debt securities | 188 | | | 0 | | | 0 | | 0 | 188 | 
Total | $ | 2,014 | | | $ | 108 | | $ | 0 | $ | 306 | $ | 2,428
Gross amount of recognized liabilities for securities lending in offsetting disclosure | | $ | 2,428 | 
Amounts related to agreements not included in securities lending in offsetting disclosure | | $ | 0 | 

 Derivative Financial Instruments
We recognize derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. We record changes in the fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of the derivatives in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income as other income (expense), net, as part of revenues, or as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, as discussed below.
We enter into foreign currency contracts with financial institutions to reduce the risk that our cash flows and earnings will be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We use certain interest rate derivative contracts to hedge interest rate exposures on our fixed income securities and debt. Our program is not used for trading or speculative purposes.
We enter into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. To further reduce credit risk, we enter into collateral security arrangements under which the counterparty is required to provide collateral when the net fair value of certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. We can take possession of the collateral in the event of counterparty default. As of December 31, 2014 and 2015, we received cash collateral related to the derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements of $268 million and $192 million.
Cash Flow Hedges
We use options designated as cash flow hedges to hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The notional principal of these contracts was approximately $13.6 billion and $16.4 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2015. These foreign exchange contracts have maturities of 36 months or less.
In 2012, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $1.0 billion and terms calling for us to receive interest at a variable rate and to pay interest at a fixed rate, that effectively locked in an interest rate on our anticipated debt issuance of $1.0 billion in 2014. We issued $1.0 billion of unsecured senior notes in February 2014 (See details in Note 4). As a result, we terminated the forward-starting interest rate swaps upon the debt issuance. The cash gain associated with the termination is reported within Operating Activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2014, consistent with the impact of the hedged item. 
We reflect gain or loss on the effective portion of a cash flow hedge as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassify cumulative gains and losses to revenues or interest expense when the hedged transactions are recorded. If the hedged transactions become probable of not occurring, the corresponding amounts in AOCI would be immediately reclassified to other income (expense), net. Further, we exclude the change in the time value of the options from our 
67


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

assessment of hedge effectiveness. We record the premium paid or time value of an option on the date of purchase as an asset. Thereafter, we recognize changes to this time value in other income (expense), net.
As of December 31, 2015, the effective portion of our cash flow hedges before tax effect was $375 million, of which $293 million is expected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings within the next 12 months.
Fair Value Hedges
We use forward contracts designated as fair value hedges to hedge foreign currency risks for our investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We exclude changes in the time value for forward contracts from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The notional principal of these contracts was $1.5 billion and $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2015.
We use interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges to hedge interest rate risk for certain fixed rate securities. The notional principal of these contracts was $175 million and $295 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2015.
Gains and losses on these forward contracts and interest rate swaps are recognized in other income (expense), net, along with the offsetting losses and gains of the related hedged items.
Other Derivatives
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of forward and option contracts that we use to hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of a subsidiary. We recognize gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs in other income (expense), net, along with the foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities. The notional principal of foreign exchange contracts outstanding was $6.2 billion and $7.5 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2015.
We also use exchange-traded interest rate futures contracts and “To Be Announced” (TBA) forward purchase commitments of mortgage-backed assets to hedge interest rate risks on certain fixed income securities. The TBA contracts meet the definition of derivative instruments in cases where physical delivery of the assets is not taken at the earliest available delivery date. Our interest rate futures and TBA contracts (together interest rate contracts) are not designated as hedging instruments. We recognize gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs, in other income (expense), net. The gains and losses are generally economically offset by unrealized gains and losses in the underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded as a component of AOCI until the securities are sold or other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the amounts are moved from AOCI into other income (expense), net. The total notional amounts of interest rate contracts outstanding were $150 million and $50 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2015.
68


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The fair values of our outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions):

 | | As of December 31, 2014 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, current and non-current | $ | 851 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 851
Interest rate contracts | Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, current and non-current | 1 | | | 0 | | | 1
Total | | $ | 852 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 852
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | $ | 0 | | | $ | 3 | | $ | 3 
Interest rate contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | 1 | | | 0 | | | 1
Total | | $ | 1 | | | $ | 3 | | $ | 4 


 | | As of December 31, 2015 
 | Balance Sheet Location | Fair Value ofDerivativesDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Fair Value ofDerivatives NotDesignated asHedging Instruments | | Total FairValue
Derivative Assets: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, current and non-current | $ | 626 | | | $ | 2 | | $ | 628
Total | | $ | 626 | | | $ | 2 | | $ | 628
Derivative Liabilities: | | | | | | 
Level 2: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | $ | 1 | | | $ | 13 | | $ | 14 
Interest rate contracts | Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current | 2 | | | 0 | | | 2
Total | | $ | 3 | | | $ | 13 | | $ | 16 

69


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The effect of derivative instruments in cash flow hedging relationships on income and other comprehensive income (OCI) is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in OCIon Derivatives Before Tax Effect (Effective Portion)
 | Year Ended December 31, 
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Foreign exchange contracts | $ | 92 | | | $ | 929 | | $ | 964
Interest rate contracts | 86 | | | (31 | ) | | 0
Total | $ | 178 | | | $ | 898 | | $ | 964


 | Gains Reclassified from AOCI into Income (Effective Portion)
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship | Location | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Foreign exchange contracts | Revenues | $ | 95 | | | $ | 171 | | $ | 1,399
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 0 | | | 4 | | | 5
Total | | $ | 95 | | | $ | 175 | | $ | 1,404


 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income on Derivatives (AmountExcluded from Effectiveness Testing and Ineffective Portion) (1) 
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship | Location | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Foreign exchange contracts | Other income (expense), net | $ | (280 | ) | | $ | (279 | ) | $ | (297 | )
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 0 | | | 4 | | | 0
Total | | $ | (280 | ) | | $ | (275 | ) | $ | (297 | )


(1) | Gains (losses) related to the ineffective portion of the hedges were not material in all periods presented.

The effect of derivative instruments in fair value hedging relationships on income is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income on Derivatives(2)
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives in Fair Value Hedging Relationship | Location | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Foreign Exchange Hedges: | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Other income (expense), net | $ | 16 | | | $ | 115 | | | $ | 170 | 
Hedged item | Other income (expense), net | (25 | ) | | (123 | ) | | (176 | )
Total | | $ | (9 | ) | | $ | (8 | ) | | $ | (6 | )
Interest Rate Hedges: | | | | | | 
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | (2 | )
Hedged item | Other income (expense), net | 0 | | | 0 | | | 2 | 
Total | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | 


(2) | Losses related to the amount excluded from effectiveness testing of the hedges were $9 million, $8 million, and $6 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015.

70


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The effect of derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments on income is summarized below (in millions):

 | Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income on Derivatives 
 | | Year Ended December 31,
Derivatives Not Designated As Hedging Instruments | Location | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Foreign exchange contracts | Other income (expense), net, and net loss from discontinued operations | $ | 118 | | | $ | 237 | | $ | 198
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 4 | | | 2 | | | 1
Total | | $ | 122 | | | $ | 239 | | $ | 199

Offsetting of Derivatives, Securities Lending, and Reverse Repurchase Agreements
We present our derivatives, securities lending and reverse repurchase agreements at gross fair values in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, our master netting and other similar arrangements allow net settlements under certain conditions. As of December 31, 2014 and 2015, information related to these offsetting arrangements was as follows (in millions):

Offsetting of Assets | | | | | | | | | | | 
 | As of December 31, 2014 
 | | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
Description | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 852 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 852 | | $ | (1 | ) | (1) | $ | (251 | ) | $ | (412 | ) | $ | 188
Reverse repurchase agreements | 2,637 | | | 0 | | | 2,637 | (2) | 0 | | 0 | | | (2,637 | ) | | 0
Total | $ | 3,489 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 3,489 | | $ | (1 | ) | | $ | (251 | ) | $ | (3,049 | ) | $ | 188
 | As of December 31, 2015 
 | | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
Description | Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Received | | Non-Cash Collateral Received | Net Assets Exposed
Derivatives | $ | 628 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 628 | | $ | (13 | ) | (1) | $ | (189 | ) | $ | (214 | ) | $ | 212
Reverse repurchase agreements | 1,590 | | | 0 | | | 1,590 | (2) | 0 | | 0 | | | (1,590 | ) | | 0
Total | $ | 2,218 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 2,218 | | $ | (13 | ) | | $ | (189 | ) | $ | (1,804 | ) | $ | 212


(1) | The balances as of December 31, 2014 and 2015 were related to derivative liabilities which are allowed to be net settled against derivative assets in accordance with our master netting agreements.


(2) | The balances as of December 31, 2014 and 2015 included $1,762 million and $1,140 million recorded in cash and cash equivalents, respectively, and $875 million and $450 million recorded in receivable under reverse repurchase agreements, respectively.

71


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


Offsetting of Liabilities | | | | | | | | | | | 
 | As of December 31, 2014 
 | | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset | 
Description | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 4 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 4 | | $ | (1 | ) | (3) | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 | | $ | 3 
Securities lending agreements | 2,778 | | | 0 | | | 2,778 | | 0 | | 0 | | | (2,740 | ) | | 38
Total | $ | 2,782 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 2,782 | | $ | (1 | ) | | $ | 0 | | $ | (2,740 | ) | $ | 41
 | As of December 31, 2015 
 | | | | | | | Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset
Description | Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities | | Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets | | Financial Instruments | Cash Collateral Pledged | | Non-Cash Collateral Pledged | Net Liabilities
Derivatives | $ | 16 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 16 | | $ | (13 | ) | (3) | $ | (3 | ) | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 
Securities lending agreements | 2,428 | | | 0 | | | 2,428 | | 0 | | 0 | | | (2,401 | ) | | 27
Total | $ | 2,444 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 2,444 | | $ | (13 | ) | | $ | (3 | ) | $ | (2,401 | ) | $ | 27


(3) | The balances as of December 31, 2014 and 2015 were related to derivative assets which are allowed to be net settled against derivative liabilities in accordance with our master netting agreements.

Note 3. Non-Marketable Investments
 Our non-marketable investments include non-marketable equity investments and non-marketable debt securities. 
 Non-Marketable Equity Investments
Our non-marketable equity investments are investments we have made in privately-held companies accounted for under the equity or cost method and are not required to be consolidated under the variable interest or voting models. As of December 31, 2014 and 2015, these investments accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of approximately $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, and those investments accounted for under the cost method had a carrying value of $1.8 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. For investments accounted for under the cost method, the fair value was approximately $7.5 billion as of December 31, 2015. The fair value of the cost method investments are primarily determined from data leveraging private-market transactions and are classified within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. We periodically review our non-marketable equity investments for impairment. No material impairments were recognized for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015. Our share of gains and losses in equity method investments for the year ended December 31, 2015 was a net loss of approximately $227 million and not material for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014. We reflect these losses as a component of other income (expense), net, in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.
We determined that certain renewable energy investments included in our non-marketable equity investments are VIEs. However, we do not consolidate these entities in our financial statements because we do not have the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and account for those investments under the equity method. Our involvement with investments in renewable energy relate to our equity investments in entities whose activities involve power generation. We have determined that the governance structures of these entities do not allow us to direct the activities that would significantly impact the entity's economic performance such as setting operating budgets. The carrying value of our renewable energy investments accounted for under the equity method that are VIEs is $302 million as of December 31, 2015 with the maximum exposure of $316 million. The maximum exposure is based on current investments to date plus future funding commitments.  We have determined the single source of our exposure to these VIE’s is our capital investment in these entities. We periodically reassess whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The reassessment process considers whether we have acquired the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE through changes in governing documents or other circumstances. We also reconsider whether entities previously determined not to be VIEs have become VIEs, based on changes in facts and circumstances including changes in contractual arrangements and capital structure.
72


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Non-Marketable Debt Securities
Our non-marketable debt securities are primarily preferred stock that are redeemable at our option and convertible notes issued by private companies. These debt securities do not have readily determinable market values and are categorized accordingly as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. To estimate the fair value of these securities, we use a combination of valuation methodologies, including market and income approaches based on prior transaction prices; estimated timing, probability, and amount of cash flows; and illiquidity considerations. Financial information of private companies may not be available and consequently we will estimate the value based on the best available information at the measurement date. We estimate a range of fair values based on valuation approaches noted above and as of December 31, 2014 and 2015, the fair value recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for individual investments is within the range. No material impairments were recognized for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015. 
The following table presents a reconciliation for our assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) (in millions):

 | Level 3
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | $ | 90 
Purchases, issuances, and settlements(1) | 934 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | $ | 1,024


(1) | Purchases of securities included our $900 million investment in SpaceX, a space exploration and space transport company, made during January 2015.

Note 4. Debt
Short-Term Debt
We have a debt financing program of up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2014 and 2015, we had $2.0 billion of outstanding commercial paper recorded as short-term debt with a weighted-average interest rate of 0.1% and 0.2%, respectively. In conjunction with this program, we have a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility expiring in July 2016. The interest rate for the credit facility is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. As of December 31, 2014 and 2015, we were in compliance with the financial covenant in the credit facility, and no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31, 2014 and 2015. The estimated fair value of the short-term debt approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2014 and 2015.
73


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Long-Term Debt
We issued $1.0 billion of unsecured senior notes (the "2014 Notes") in February 2014 and $3.0 billion of unsecured senior notes in three tranches (collectively, the "2011 Notes") in May 2011. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of the 2011 Notes to repay a portion of our outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of the 2014 Notes for the repayment of the portion of the principal amount of our 2011 Notes which matured on May 19, 2014 and for general corporate purposes. The total outstanding Notes are summarized below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2014 | | As ofDecember 31, 2015
Short-Term Portion of Long-Term Debt | | | 
2.125% Notes due on May 19, 2016 | $ | 0 | | | $ | 1,000
Capital Lease Obligation | 10 | | | 225 | 
Total Short-Term Portion of Long-Term Debt | $ | 10 | | | $ | 1,225
Long-Term Debt | | | 
2.125% Notes due on May 19, 2016 | $ | 1,000 | | | $ | 0 
3.625% Notes due on May 19, 2021 | 1,000 | | | 1,000 | 
3.375% Notes due on February 25, 2024 | 1,000 | | | 1,000 | 
Unamortized discount for the Notes above | (8 | ) | | (5 | )
Subtotal | 2,992 | | | 1,995 | 
Capital Lease Obligation | 236 | | | 0 | 
Total Long-Term Debt | $ | 3,228 | | | $ | 1,995

The effective interest yields of the Notes due in 2016, 2021, and 2024 were 2.241%, 3.734%, and 3.377%, respectively. Interest on the 2011 and 2014 Notes is payable semi-annually. The 2011 and 2014 Notes rank equally with each other and with all of our other senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding. We may redeem the 2011 and 2014 Notes at any time in whole or in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the 2011 Notes or the 2014 Notes. The total estimated fair value of the 2011 and 2014 Notes was approximately $3.1 billion at both December 31, 2014 and 2015. The fair value of the outstanding 2011 and 2014 Notes was determined based on observable market prices in less active markets and is categorized accordingly as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
In August 2013, we entered into a capital lease obligation on certain property expiring in 2028. We intend to exercise the option to purchase the property in 2016, and as such the long term portion of the capital lease obligation was reclassified as short term. The effective rate of the capital lease obligation approximates the market rate. The estimated fair value of the capital lease obligation approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2014 and 2015.
As of December 31, 2015, aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt (including short-term portion of long-term debt) and capital lease obligation were as follows (in millions):

Years Ending | 
2016 | $ | 1,225
2017 | 0 | 
2018 | 0 | 
2019 | 0 | 
Thereafter | 2,000 | 
Total | $ | 3,225

In January 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to issue up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper from time to time and to enter into a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility to replace Google's existing $3.0 billion revolving credit facility. 
74


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Note 5. Balance Sheet Components
Property and Equipment, Net
Property and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2014 | | As of December 31, 2015
Land and buildings | $ | 13,326 | | | $ | 16,518
Information technology assets | 10,918 | | | 13,645 | 
Construction in progress | 6,555 | | | 7,324 | 
Leasehold improvements | 1,868 | | | 2,576 | 
Furniture and fixtures | 79 | | | 83 | 
Property and equipment, gross | 32,746 | | | 40,146 | 
Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization | (8,863 | ) | | (11,130 | )
Property and equipment, net | $ | 23,883 | | | $ | 29,016

Property under capital lease with a cost basis of $258 million was included in land and buildings as of December 31, 2015.
Prepaid Revenue Share, Expenses and Other Assets, Non-Current
Note Receivable
In connection with the sale of our Motorola Mobile business on October 29, 2014 (see Note 9 for additional information), we received an interest-free, three-year prepayable promissory note (the "Note Receivable") due October 2017 from Lenovo. The Note Receivable is included in prepaid revenue share, expenses and other assets, non-current, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Based on the general market conditions and the credit quality of Lenovo, we discounted the Note Receivable at an effective interest rate of 4.5%. The outstanding balances are shown in the table below (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2014 | | As ofDecember 31, 2015
Principal of the Note Receivable | $ | 1,500 | | | $ | 1,448
Less: unamortized discount for the Note Receivable | (175 | ) | | (112 | )
Total | $ | 1,325 | | | $ | 1,336

As of December 31, 2014 and 2015, we did not recognize a valuation allowance on the Note Receivable.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
The components of AOCI, net of tax, were as follows (in millions):

 | Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Investments | | Unrealized Gains on Cash Flow Hedges | | Total
Balance as of December 31, 2012 | $ | (73 | ) | | $ | 604 | | | $ | 7 | | $ | 538
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | 89 | | | (392 | ) | | 112 | | | (191 | )
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (162 | ) | | (60 | ) | | (222 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | 89 | | | (554 | ) | | 52 | | | (413 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2013 | $ | 16 | | | $ | 50 | | | $ | 59 | | $ | 125

75


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


 | Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Investments | | Unrealized Gains on Cash Flow Hedges | | Total
Balance as of December 31, 2013 | $ | 16 | | | $ | 50 | | | $ | 59 | | $ | 125
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (996 | ) | | 505 | | | 651 | | | 160 | 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | (134 | ) | | (124 | ) | | (258 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (996 | ) | | 371 | | | 527 | | | (98 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | $ | (980 | ) | | $ | 421 | | | $ | 586 | | $ | 27 


 | Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments | | Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Investments | | Unrealized Gains on Cash Flow Hedges | | Total 
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | $ | (980 | ) | | $ | 421 | | | $ | 586 | | $ | 27 | 
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications | (1,067 | ) | | (715 | ) | | 676 | | | (1,106 | )
Amounts reclassified from AOCI | 0 | | | 208 | | | (1,003 | ) | | (795 | )
Other comprehensive income (loss) | (1,067 | ) | | (507 | ) | | (327 | ) | | (1,901 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | $ | (2,047 | ) | | $ | (86 | ) | | $ | 259 | | $ | (1,874 | )

The effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI were as follows (in millions):

 | | Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI to the Consolidated Statement of Income
 | | Year Ended December 31, 
AOCI Components | Location | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments | | | | | | 
 | Other income (expense), net | $ | 158 | | | $ | 153 | | | $ | (208 | )
 | Net Income (loss) from discontinued operations | 43 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
 | Provision for income taxes | (39 | ) | | (19 | ) | | 0 | 
 | Net of tax | $ | 162 | | | $ | 134 | | | $ | (208 | )
Unrealized gains on cash flow hedges | | | | | | 
Foreign exchange contracts | Revenue | $ | 95 | | | $ | 171 | | | $ | 1,399 | 
Interest rate contracts | Other income (expense), net | 0 | | | 4 | | | 5 | 
 | Provision for income taxes | (35 | ) | | (51 | ) | | (401 | )
 | Net of tax | $ | 60 | | | $ | 124 | | | $ | 1,003 | 
Total amount reclassified, net of tax | | $ | 222 | | | $ | 258 | | | $ | 795 | 

Note 6. Acquisitions
2015 Acquisitions
bebop Technologies
In December 2015, we completed the acquisition of bebop Technologies Inc. (bebop), a company with a cloud-based development platform focused on enterprise applications. The fair value of total consideration transferred in connection with the close was $272 million, of which $1 million was paid in cash and $271 million was paid in the form of Alphabet Class C capital stock. We issued a total of approximately 514 thousand shares of Alphabet Class C capital 
76


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

stock in relation to this acquisition, part of which will be accounted for as compensation expense. The fair value of the shares of capital stock issued was determined based on the closing market price of Alphabet's Class C capital stock as of the close date. The Class C capital stock issued by Alphabet in connection with the acquisition was treated as a capital contribution from Alphabet to Google. We expect the acquisition will help us provide a new platform to build and maintain enterprise applications. As part of the acquisition, Diane Greene, the former CEO of bebop and a member of our Board of Directors, has joined Google.
Of the total purchase price of $272 million, $28 million was cash acquired, $59 million was attributed to intangible assets, $206 million was attributed to goodwill, and $21 million was attributed to net liabilities assumed. The goodwill of $206 million is primarily attributable to the synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Other Acquisitions
During the year ended December 31, 2015, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $263 million. In aggregate, $4 million was cash acquired, $88 million was attributed to intangible assets, $138 million was attributed to goodwill, and $33 million was attributed to net assets acquired. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expanding our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $20 million.
Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in aggregate.
For all acquisitions and purchases completed during the year ended December 31, 2015, patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of 4.1 years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of 4.0 years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of 6.8 years.
2014 Acquisitions
Nest
In February 2014, we completed the acquisition of Nest Labs, Inc. (Nest), a company whose mission is to reinvent devices in the home such as thermostats and smoke alarms. Prior to this transaction, we had an approximately 12% ownership interest in Nest. The acquisition is expected to enhance Google's suite of products and services and allow Nest to continue to innovate upon devices in the home, making them more useful, intuitive, and thoughtful, and to reach more users in more countries. 
Of the total $2.6 billion purchase price and the fair value of our previously held equity interest of $152 million, $51 million was cash acquired, $430 million was attributed to intangible assets, $2.3 billion was attributed to goodwill, and $84 million was attributed to net liabilities assumed. The goodwill of $2.3 billion is primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
This transaction is considered a “step acquisition” under GAAP whereby our ownership interest in Nest held before the acquisition was remeasured to fair value at the date of the acquisition. Such fair value was estimated by using discounted cash flow valuation methodologies. Inputs used in the methodologies primarily included projected future cash flows, discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved. The gain of $103 million as a result of remeasurement is included in other income (expense), net, on our Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2014.
Dropcam
In July 2014, Nest completed the acquisition of Dropcam, Inc. (Dropcam), a company that enables consumers and businesses to monitor their homes and offices via video, for approximately $517 million in cash. With Dropcam on board, Nest expects to continue to reinvent products that will help shape the future of the connected home. Of the total purchase price of $517 million, $11 million was cash acquired, $55 million was attributed to intangible assets, $452 million was attributed to goodwill, and $1 million was attributed to net liabilities assumed. The goodwill of $452 million is primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Skybox
In August 2014, we completed the acquisition of Skybox Imaging, Inc. (Skybox), a satellite imaging company, for approximately $478 million in cash. We expect the acquisition to keep Google Maps accurate with up-to-date imagery and, over time, improve internet access and disaster relief. Of the total purchase price of $478 million, $6 million was cash acquired, $69 million was attributed to intangible assets, $388 million was attributed to goodwill, and $15 million
77


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

was attributed to net assets acquired. The goodwill of $388 million is primarily attributable to the synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Other Acquisitions
During the year ended December 31, 2014, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $1,466 million, which includes the fair value of our previously held equity interest of $33 million. In aggregate, $65 million was cash acquired, $405 million was attributed to intangible assets, $1,045 million was attributed to goodwill, and $49 million was attributed to net liabilities assumed. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expanding our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $55 million.
Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in aggregate.
For all acquisitions and purchases completed during the year ended December 31, 2014, patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of 5.1 years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of 4.5 years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of 6.9 years.
Note 7. Collaboration Agreement
On September 18, 2013, we announced the formation of Calico, a life science company with a mission to harness advanced technologies to increase our understanding of the biology that controls lifespan. Calico's results of operations and statement of financial position are included in our consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2015, Google has contributed $240 million to Calico in exchange for Calico convertible preferred units. As of December 31, 2015, Google has also committed to fund an additional $490 million on an as-needed basis. 
In September 2014, AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) and Calico announced a research and development collaboration intended to help both companies discover, develop, and bring to market new therapies for patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer. As of December 31, 2015, AbbVie has contributed $750 million to fund the collaboration pursuant to the agreement, which reflects its total commitment. As of December 31, 2015, Calico has contributed $250 million and committed up to an additional $500 million.
Calico will use its scientific expertise to establish a world-class research and development facility, with a focus on drug discovery and early drug development; and AbbVie will provide scientific and clinical development support and its commercial expertise to bring new discoveries to market. Both companies will share costs and profits equally. AbbVie's contribution has been recorded as a liability on Calico's financial statements, which is reduced and reflected as a reduction to research and development expense as eligible research and development costs are incurred by Calico over the next few years. 
Note 8. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill
In conjunction with the Alphabet reorganization we are implementing a new operating structure. Consequently, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, we have multiple operating segments and reporting units, representing the individual businesses run separately under the Alphabet structure. Refer to Note 16 for further information. In conjunction with the changes to reporting units, we allocated goodwill to each reporting unit based on their relative fair values. The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to our disclosed segments for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2015 were as follows (in millions):
78


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


 | Google | | Other Bets | | Total Consolidated
Balance as of December 31, 2013 | $ | 11,492 | | | $ | — | | | $ | 11,492
Acquisitions | 4,208 | | | — | | | 4,208 | 
Dispositions | (43 | ) | | — | | | (43 | )
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | (58 | ) | | — | | | (58 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | $ | 15,599 | | | $ | — | | | $ | 15,599
Acquisitions | 139 | | | — | | | 139 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | (71 | ) | | — | | | (71 | )
Allocation in the fourth quarter of 2015 | (416 | ) | | 416 | | | — | 
Acquisitions | 201 | | | 4 | | | 205 | 
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments | 4 | | | (7 | ) | | (3 | )
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | $ | 15,456 | | | $ | 413 | | | $ | 15,869

Other Intangible Assets
Information regarding our purchased intangible assets is as follows (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2014
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingAmount
Patents and developed technology | $ | 6,547 | | | $ | 2,513 | | $ | 4,034
Customer relationships | 1,410 | | | 1,168 | | | 242
Trade names and other | 696 | | | 365 | | | 331
Total | $ | 8,653 | | | $ | 4,046 | | $ | 4,607


 | As of December 31, 2015
 | GrossCarryingAmount | | AccumulatedAmortization | | NetCarryingValue
Patents and developed technology | $ | 6,592 | | | $ | 3,213 | | $ | 3,379
Customer relationships | 1,343 | | | 1,201 | | | 142
Trade names and other | 795 | | | 469 | | | 326
Total | $ | 8,730 | | | $ | 4,883 | | $ | 3,847

Patents and developed technology, customer relationships, and trade names and other have weighted-average useful lives from the date of purchase of 7.8 years, 6.0 years, and 5.4 years, respectively. Amortization expense relating to our purchased intangible assets was $1,011 million, $1,079 million, and $892 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015.
During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded an impairment charge in other cost of revenues of $378 million related to a patent licensing royalty asset acquired in connection with the Motorola acquisition, which we retained subsequent to the sale of Motorola Mobile. The asset was determined to be impaired due to prolonged decreased royalty payments and unpaid interest owed and was written down to its fair value. Fair value was determined based on a discounted cash flow method and reflects estimated future cash flows associated with the patent licensing royalty asset at the measurement date and falls within level 3 in fair value hierarchy. Impairments of intangible assets were not material for the year ended December 31, 2015.
79


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

As of December 31, 2015, expected amortization expense for our purchased intangible assets for each of the next five years and thereafter was as follows (in millions):

2016 | $ | 806 
2017 | 724 | 
2018 | 637 | 
2019 | 528 | 
2020 | 434 | 
Thereafter | 718 | 
 | $ | 3,847

Note 9. Discontinued Operations
Motorola Mobile
On October 29, 2014, we closed the sale of the Motorola Mobile business to Lenovo for a total purchase price of approximately $2.9 billion, including $1.4 billion paid at close, comprised of $660 million in cash and $750 million in Lenovo ordinary shares (519.1 million shares). The remaining $1.5 billion was paid in the form of an interest-free, three-year prepayable promissory note.
We maintain ownership of the vast majority of the Motorola Mobile patent portfolio, including pre-closing patent applications and invention disclosures, which we licensed to Motorola Mobile for its continued operations. Additionally, in connection with the sale, we agreed to indemnify Lenovo for certain potential liabilities of the Motorola Mobile business, for which we recorded an indemnification liability of $130 million.
The sale resulted in a gain of $740 million, net of tax, which was presented as part of net income from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2014. Incremental to this net gain, we recognized additional income of $254 million, net of tax, in connection with certain IP licensing arrangements between the parties, included as part of net income from discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2014.
The financial results of Motorola Mobile through the date of divestiture are presented as net income (loss) from discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Income. The following table presents financial results of the Motorola Mobile business included in net income (loss) from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014 (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 (1)
Revenues | $ | 4,306 | | | $ | 5,486
Loss from discontinued operations before income taxes | (1,403 | ) | | (177 | )
Benefits from/(Provision for) income taxes | 270 | | | (47 | )
Gain on disposal | 0 | | | 740 | 
Net (loss) income from discontinued operations | $ | (1,133 | ) | | $ | 516 


(1) | The operating results of Motorola Mobile were included in our Consolidated Statements of Income from January 1, 2014 through October 29, 2014, the date of divestiture.

80


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The following table presents the aggregate carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities divested (in millions): 

Assets: | 
Cash and cash equivalents | $ | 160 
Accounts receivable | 1,103 | 
Inventories | 217 | 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets | 357 | 
Prepaid expenses and other assets, non-current | 290 | 
Property and equipment, net | 542 | 
Intangible assets, net | 985 | 
Goodwill | 43 | 
Total assets | $ | 3,697
Liabilities: | 
Accounts payable | $ | 1,238
Accrued compensation and benefits | 163 | 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities | 10 | 
Deferred revenue, current | 165 | 
Other long-term liabilities | 250 | 
Total liabilities | $ | 1,826

Motorola Home
On April 17, 2013, we sold the Motorola Home business to Arris for consideration of approximately $2,412 million in cash, including cash of $2,238 million received at the date of close and certain post-close adjustments of $174 million received in the third quarter of 2013, and approximately $175 million in Arris' common stock (10.6 million shares). Subsequent to the transaction, we own approximately 7.8% of the outstanding shares of Arris. Additionally, in connection with the disposition, we agreed to indemnify Arris for potential liability from certain intellectual property infringement litigation, for which we recorded an indemnification liability of $175 million, the majority of which was settled subsequent to the disposition. 
The disposition resulted in a net gain of $757 million, which was presented as part of net income from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2013.
The financial results of Motorola Home through the date of divestiture are presented as net income (loss) from discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statement of Income. The following table presents financial results of the Motorola Home business included in net income (loss) from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 (1) 
Revenues | $ | 804
Loss from discontinued operations before income taxes | (67 | ) 
Benefits from income taxes | 16 | 
Gain on disposal | 757 | 
Net income from discontinued operations | $ | 706

(1)The operating results of Motorola Home were included in our Consolidated Statements of Income from January 1, 2013 through April 17, 2013, the date of divestiture.
81


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The following table presents the aggregate carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities divested (in millions): 

Assets: | 
Accounts receivable | $ | 424 
Inventories | 228 | 
Deferred income taxes, net | 144 | 
Prepaid and other current assets | 152 | 
Property and equipment, net | 282 | 
Intangible assets, net | 701 | 
Other assets, non-current | 182 | 
Total assets | $ | 2,113
Liabilities: | 
Accounts payable | $ | 169 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities | 289 | 
Total liabilities | $ | 458 

Note 10. Other Income (Expense), Net
The components of other income (expense), net, were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Interest income | $ | 766 | | | $ | 746 | | | $ | 999
Interest expense | (81 | ) | | (101 | ) | | (104 | )
Gain (loss) on marketable securities, net | 158 | | | 153 | | | (208 | )
Foreign currency exchange losses, net (1) | (379 | ) | | (402 | ) | | (422 | )
Gain (loss) on non-marketable investments, net | 8 | | | 237 | | | (126 | )
Loss on divestiture of businesses (2) | (57 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Other | 81 | | | 130 | | | 152 | 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 496 | | | $ | 763 | | | $ | 291


(1) | Our foreign currency exchange losses,net are related to the option premium costs and forward points for our foreign currency hedging contracts, our foreign exchange transaction gains and losses from the conversion of the transaction currency to the functional currency, offset by the foreign currency hedging contract losses and gains. The net foreign currency transaction losses were $121 million, $107 million, and $123 million in 2013, 2014, and 2015, respectively.


(2) | Gain on divestiture of Motorola Home business was included in net income (loss) from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2013. Gain on divestiture of Motorola Mobile business was included in net income (loss) from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2014.

Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies
Operating Leases
We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, facilities, land, and data centers throughout the world with original lease periods expiring primarily between 2016 and 2063. We are committed to pay a portion of the actual operating expenses under certain of these lease agreements. These operating expenses are not included in the table below. Certain of these arrangements have free or escalating rent payment provisions. We recognize rent expense under such arrangements on a straight-line basis.
82


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

As of December 31, 2015, future minimum payments under non-cancelable operating leases, net of sublease income amounts, were as follows over each of the next five years and thereafter (in millions):

 | OperatingLeases | | Sub-leaseIncome | | NetOperatingLeases
2016 | 672 | | | 26 | | | 646 
2017 | 794 | | | 13 | | | 781 
2018 | 796 | | | 4 | | | 792 
2019 | 769 | | | 3 | | | 766 
2020 | 719 | | | 3 | | | 716 
Thereafter | 3,706 | | | 1 | | | 3,705
Total minimum payments | $ | 7,456 | | | $ | 50 | | $ | 7,406

Certain leases have adjustments for market provisions. Amounts in the above table represent our best estimates of future payments to be made under these leases. 
We entered into certain non-cancelable lease agreements with original lease periods expiring between 2021 and 2032 where we are the deemed owner for accounting purposes of new construction projects. Future minimum lease payments under such leases total approximately $678 million, of which $422 million is included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015. These amounts are presented as an asset and corresponding non-current liability, which represents our estimate of construction costs incurred to date. They have been excluded from the table above.
Rent expense under operating leases, including co-location arrangements, was $465 million, $570 million, and $734 million in 2013, 2014, and 2015.
Purchase Obligations
As of December 31, 2015, we had $1.7 billion of other non-cancelable contractual obligations, primarily related to data center operations and facility build-outs, video and other content licensing revenue sharing arrangements, as well as certain inventory purchase commitments.
Letters of Credit
As of December 31, 2015, we had unused letters of credit for $752 million.
Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, to facilitate transactions in our services and products, we indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network Members, and lessors with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.
It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, we have a limited history of prior indemnification claims and the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 
As of December 31, 2015, we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible. As part of the sale of Motorola Home and Motorola Mobile businesses, we issued indemnifications for certain potential liabilities. Please see Note 9 for additional information.
Legal Matters
Antitrust Investigations
On November 30, 2010, the European Commission's (EC) Directorate General for Competition opened an investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against us. On April 15, 2015, the EC issued a Statement of 
83


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Objections (SO) regarding the display and ranking of shopping search results. The EC also opened a formal investigation into Android. We responded to the SO on August 27, 2015 and will continue to cooperate with the EC.
The Comision Nacional de Defensa de la Competencia in Argentina, the Competition Commission of India (CCI), Brazil's Council for Economic Defense (CADE), the Canadian Competition Bureau (CCB), and the Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS) of the Russian Federation have also opened investigations into certain of our business practices. In August 2015, we received the CCI Director General's report with interim findings of competition law infringements regarding search and ads. In September 2015, FAS found that there has been a competition law infringement in Android mobile distribution. We will respond to the CCI's report and have filed an appeal of the FAS decision. In July 2015, the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission informed us that it was closing its antitrust investigations of our business practices.
The state attorney general from Mississippi issued subpoenas in 2011 and 2012 in an antitrust investigation of our business practices. We have responded to those subpoenas, and we remain willing to cooperate with them if they have any further information requests.
Patent and Intellectual Property Claims
We have had patent, copyright, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices, and require development of non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. In addition, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) has increasingly become an important forum to litigate intellectual property disputes because an ultimate loss for a company or its suppliers in an ITC action could result in a prohibition on importing infringing products into the U.S. Since the U.S. is an important market, a prohibition on importation could have an adverse effect on us, including preventing us from importing many important products into the U.S. or necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features of our products.
Furthermore, many of our agreements with our customers and partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Our customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business.
Other
We are also regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition (such as the pending EC investigations described above), intellectual property, privacy, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. Such claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings could result in fines, civil or criminal penalties, or other adverse consequences.
Certain of our outstanding legal matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss. We evaluate, on a monthly basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both likelihood of there being and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters.
With respect to our outstanding legal matters, based on our current knowledge, we believe that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, the outcome of such legal matters is inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties.
We expense legal fees in the period in which they are incurred.
Taxes
We are under audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and various other domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to income tax and indirect tax matters. We have reserved for potential adjustments to our provision for income taxes and accrual of indirect taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities, and we believe that the final outcome of these examinations or agreements will not have a 
84


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

material effect on our results of operations. If events occur which indicate payment of these amounts is unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in the recognition of benefits in the period we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimates of the federal, state, and foreign income tax liabilities and indirect tax liabilities are less than the ultimate assessment, it would result in a further charge to expense.
Please see Note 15 for additional information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes.
Note 12. Net Income Per Share
Alphabet
We compute net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and the effect of potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist of stock options, restricted stock units, and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect of outstanding stock options, restricted stock units, and other contingently issuable shares is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. The computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A common stock assumes the conversion of Class B common stock, while the diluted net income per share of Class B common stock does not assume the conversion of those shares.
The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, of the holders of our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Further, there are a number of safeguards built into our certificate of incorporation, as well as Delaware law, which preclude our board of directors from declaring or paying unequal per share dividends on our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments to our certificate of incorporation which would have the effect of adversely altering the rights, powers, or preferences of a given class of stock must be approved by the class of stock adversely affected by the proposed amendment. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that before any such amendment may be put to a stockholder vote, it must be approved by the unanimous consent of our board of directors. As a result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based on the contractual participation rights of the Class A and Class B common shares and Class C capital stock as if the earnings for the year had been distributed. As the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated on a proportionate basis. The net income per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock because the holders of each class are legally entitled to equal per share distributions whether through dividends or in liquidation. Further, as we assume the conversion of Class B common stock in the computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A common stock, the undistributed earnings are equal to net income for that computation.
Stock Split Effected In Form of Stock Dividend
In January 2014, our board of directors approved the distribution of shares of Class C capital stock as a dividend to our holders of Class A and Class B common stock (the Stock Split). The Stock Split had a record date of March 27, 2014 and a payment date of April 2, 2014. 
In the second quarter of 2015, in accordance with a settlement of litigation involving the authorization to distribute Class C capital stock, at the close of trading on April 2, 2015, the last trading day of the 365 day period following the first date the Class C shares traded on NASDAQ (Lookback Period), we determined that a payment (the Adjustment Payment) in the amount of $522 million was due to Class C capital stockholders. The amount of the Adjustment Payment was based on the percentage difference that developed between the volume-weighted average price of Class A and Class C shares during the Lookback Period, as supplied by NASDAQ Data-on-Demand, and was payable to holders of Class C capital stock as of the end of the Lookback Period in cash, Class A common stock, Class C capital stock, or a combination thereof, at the discretion of our board of directors. On April 22, 2015, our board of directors approved the Adjustment Payment in shares of Class C capital stock, and cash in lieu of any fractional shares of Class C capital stock. In May 2015, the Adjustment Payment was made, resulting in the issuance of approximately 853 thousand shares of Class C capital stock, with $475 million reflected in additional-paid in capital and $47 million of cash in lieu of fractional shares of Class C capital stock.
In the year ended December 31, 2015, the Adjustment Payment was allocated to the numerator for calculating net income per share of Class C capital stock from net income available to all stockholders and the remaining undistributed earnings were allocated on a pro rata basis to Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock based on the number of shares used in the per share computation for each class of stock. The weighted-average share impact of the Adjustment Payment is included in the denominator of both basic and diluted net income per share computations for the year ended December 31, 2015. 
85


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

In the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014, the net income per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock because the holders of each class are entitled to equal per share dividends or distributions in liquidation in accordance with our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Alphabet Inc.
The par value per share of our shares of Class A and Class B common stock remained unchanged at $0.001 per share after the Stock Split. On the effective date of the Stock Split, a transfer between retained earnings and common stock occurred in an amount equal to the $0.001 par value of the Class C capital stock that was issued.
Share and per share amounts for the prior periods presented below have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the Stock Split. 
Computation of Net Income Per Share
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock (in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income (loss) per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - continuing operations | $ | 5,407 | | | $ | 1,173 | | | $ | 6,580 | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - discontinued operations | (175 | ) | | (38 | ) | | (214 | )
Total | $ | 5,232 | | | $ | 1,135 | | | $ | 6,366 | 
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 273,518 | | | 59,328 | | | 332,846 | 
Basic net income (loss) per share: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.77 | | | $ | 19.77 | | | $ | 19.77 | 
Discontinued operations | (0.64 | ) | | (0.64 | ) | | (0.64 | )
Basic net income per share | $ | 19.13 | | | $ | 19.13 | | | $ | 19.13 | 
Diluted net income (loss) per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation - continuing operations | $ | 5,407 | | | $ | 1,173 | | | $ | 6,580 | 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 1,173 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | 0 | | | (21 | ) | | 0 | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - continuing operations | $ | 6,580 | | | $ | 1,152 | | | $ | 6,580 | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation - discontinued operations | (175 | ) | | (38 | ) | | (214 | )
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | (38 | ) | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (1 | ) | | 1 | | | 1 | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - discontinued operations | $ | (214 | ) | | $ | (37 | ) | | $ | (213 | )
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 273,518 | | | 59,328 | | | 332,846 | 
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 59,328 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Employee stock options | 2,748 | | | 4 | | | 2,748 | 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 3,215 | | | 0 | | | 3,215 | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 338,809 | | | 59,332 | | | 338,809 | 
Diluted net income (loss) per share: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.42 | | | $ | 19.42 | | | $ | 19.42 | 
Discontinued operations | (0.63 | ) | | (0.63 | ) | | (0.63 | )
Diluted net income per share | $ | 18.79 | | | $ | 18.79 | | | $ | 18.79 | 

86


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2014 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - continuing operations | $ | 5,700 | | | $ | 1,107 | | $ | 6,813
Allocation of undistributed earnings - discontinued operations | 216 | | | 42 | | | 258 
Total | $ | 5,916 | | | $ | 1,149 | | $ | 7,071
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 282,877 | | | 54,928 | | | 338,130
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 20.15 | | | $ | 20.15 | | $ | 20.15
Discontinued operations | 0.76 | | | 0.76 | | | 0.76 
Basic net income per share | $ | 20.91 | | | $ | 20.91 | | $ | 20.91
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation - continuing operations | $ | 5,700 | | | $ | 1,107 | | $ | 6,813
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 1,107 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (20 | ) | | (18 | ) | | 20 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - continuing operations | $ | 6,787 | | | $ | 1,089 | | $ | 6,833
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation - discontinued operations | 216 | | | 42 | | | 258 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 42 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (1 | ) | | (1 | ) | | 1 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - discontinued operations | $ | 257 | | | $ | 41 | | $ | 259 
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 282,877 | | | 54,928 | | | 338,130
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 54,928 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Employee stock options | 2,057 | | | 0 | | | 2,038 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 2,515 | | | 0 | | | 4,525 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 342,377 | | | 54,928 | | | 344,693
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 19.82 | | | $ | 19.82 | | $ | 19.82
Discontinued operations | 0.75 | | | 0.75 | | | 0.75 
Diluted net income per share | $ | 20.57 | | | $ | 20.57 | | $ | 20.57

87


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2015 
 | Class A | | Class B | | Class C
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders - continuing operations | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 522 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - continuing operations | 6,695 | | | 1,196 | | | 7,935 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - discontinued operations | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Total | $ | 6,695 | | | $ | 1,196 | | $ | 8,457
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 289,640 | | | 51,745 | | | 343,241
Basic net income per share: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 23.11 | | | $ | 23.11 | | $ | 24.63
Discontinued operations | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 
Basic net income per share | $ | 23.11 | | | $ | 23.11 | | $ | 24.63
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Numerator | | | | | 
Adjustment Payment to Class C capital stockholders - continuing operations | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 522 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation - continuing operations | $ | 6,695 | | | $ | 1,196 | | $ | 7,935
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 1,196 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | (39 | ) | | (14 | ) | | 39 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - continuing operations | 7,852 | | | 1,182 | | | 7,974 
Allocation of undistributed earnings for basic computation - discontinued operations | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings as a result of conversion of Class B to Class A shares | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Reallocation of undistributed earnings | 0 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Allocation of undistributed earnings - discontinued operations | $ | 0 | | | $ | 0 | | $ | 0 
Denominator | | | | | 
Number of shares used in basic computation | 289,640 | | | 51,745 | | | 343,241
Weighted-average effect of dilutive securities | | | | | 
Add: | | | | | 
Conversion of Class B to Class A common shares outstanding | 51,745 | | | 0 | | | 0 
Employee stock options | 1,475 | | | 0 | | | 1,428 
Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares | 920 | | | 0 | | | 4,481 
Number of shares used in per share computation | 343,780 | | | 51,745 | | | 349,150
Diluted net income per share: | | | | | 
Continuing operations | $ | 22.84 | | | $ | 22.84 | | $ | 24.34
Discontinued operations | 0.00 | | | 0.00 | | | 0.00 
Diluted net income per share | $ | 22.84 | | | $ | 22.84 | | $ | 24.34

Google
Net income per share for Google is not required as its shares are not publicly traded.
Note 13. Stockholders’ Equity
Alphabet Reorganization
On October 2, 2015, Google implemented a legal reorganization, which resulted in Alphabet owning all of the outstanding stock of Google. Consequently, Google became a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Alphabet. Each share of each class of Google stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the legal reorganization automatically converted into an equivalent corresponding share of Alphabet stock, and Google’s stockholders immediately prior to the consummation of the legal reorganization became stockholders of Alphabet.
As a result of the reorganization, on October 2, 2015, the Fourth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Google was amended to decrease the authorized number of shares of Class A common stock, Class B common 
88


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

stock and Class C capital stock, par value $0.001 per share, from 9 billion shares, 3 billion shares and 3 billion shares, respectively, to 500 shares of each class of stock, respectively. Additionally, the authorized number of shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, was decreased from 100 million shares to 500 shares. As of December 31, 2015, Google had 100 shares of Class A common stock, 100 shares of Class B common stock, and 100 shares of Class C capital stock outstanding, of which Alphabet was the sole owner. 
Alphabet Convertible Preferred Stock
Our board of directors has authorized 100 million shares of convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2014 and 2015, there were no shares issued or outstanding.
Alphabet Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock
Our board of directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock.
Stock Plans
As a result of the Alphabet reorganization, on October 2, 2015, Google transferred to Alphabet, and Alphabet assumed, sponsorship of all of Google's stock plans along with all of Google's rights and obligations under each plan.
During the year ended December 31, 2014, shares reserved for future grants under the 2004 Stock Plan expired and we began granting awards from the 2012 Stock Plan (“Stock Plan”). Under our Stock Plan, RSUs or stock options may be granted. An RSU award is an agreement to issue shares of our publicly traded stock at the time the award vests. Incentive and non-qualified stock options, or rights to purchase common stock, are generally granted for a term of 10 years. Options and RSUs granted to participants under the Stock Plan generally vest over four years contingent upon employment or service with us on the vesting date.
As of December 31, 2015, there were 23,336,944 shares of stock reserved for future issuance under our Stock Plan.
Stock-Based Compensation
The following table presents our aggregate stock-based compensation expense by type of costs and expenses per the Consolidated Statements of Income (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Cost of revenues | $ | 469 | | | $ | 535 | | $ | 806 
Research and development | 1,641 | | | 2,200 | | | 2,687
Sales and marketing | 552 | | | 715 | | | 899 
General and administrative | 465 | | | 725 | | | 861 
Discontinued operations | 216 | | | 104 | | | 0 
Total stock-based compensation expense | $ | 3,343 | | | $ | 4,279 | | $ | 5,253

For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015, we recognized tax benefits on total stock-based compensation expense from continuing operations of $685 million, $867 million, and $1,133 million, respectively, and from discontinued operations of $59 million, $30 million and $0 million, respectively. In addition, as a result of the Tax Court ruling in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, we have recorded a tax benefit of $522 million related to 2015 stock-based compensation expense that will be subject to reimbursement of cost share payments if the tax court's opinion is sustained. Refer to Note 15 for more detail regarding the Altera case.
Of the total stock-based compensation expense from continuing operations recognized in the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015, $0 million, $0 million, and $50 million, respectively, was associated with awards ultimately settled in cash. Awards which will be ultimately settled in cash are classified as liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Stock-based compensation associated with Alphabet equity awards granted to Google employees in the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2015, was treated as a capital contribution from Alphabet to Google. Stock-based 
89


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

compensation associated with equity awards for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015 are presented as stock-based compensation expense in Alphabet's and Google's Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity.
Alphabet Stock-Based Award Activities
The following table summarizes the activities for our options for the year ended December 31, 2015:

 | Options Outstanding
 | Number ofShares | | Weighted-AverageExercisePrice | | Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualTerm(in years) | AggregateIntrinsicValue(in millions)(1)
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | 7,240,419 | | | $ | 215.56 | | | 
Granted | 0 | | | N/A | | | 
Exercised | (2,072,550 | ) | | $ | 189.64 | | | 
Forfeited/canceled | (268,886 | ) | | $ | 310.47 | | | 
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | 4,898,983 | | | $ | 221.31 | | 3.7 | $ | 2,682
Exercisable as of December 31, 2015 | 4,462,847 | | | $ | 212.02 | | 3.4 | $ | 2,484
Exercisable as of December 31, 2015 and expected to vest thereafter (2) | 4,846,996 | | | $ | 220.29 | | 3.6 | $ | 2,658


(1) | The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying awards and the closing stock prices of $778.01 and $758.88 of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock, respectively, on December 31, 2015.


(2) | Options expected to vest reflect an estimated forfeiture rate.

The total grant date fair value of stock options vested during 2013, 2014 and 2015 was $223 million, $94 million, and $33 million. The aggregate intrinsic value of all options and warrants exercised during 2013, 2014 and 2015 was $1,793 million, $589 million, and $867 million. These amounts do not include the aggregate sales price of options sold under our Transferable Stock Options (TSO) program, which was discontinued as of November 29, 2013.
As of December 31, 2015, there was $12 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to outstanding employee stock options. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 0.6 years. To the extent the actual forfeiture rate is different from what we have estimated, stock-based compensation expense related to these awards will be different from our expectations.
The following table summarizes the activities for our unvested RSUs for the year ended December 31, 2015:

 | Unvested Restricted Stock Units
 | Number of Shares | | Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Value
Unvested as of December 31, 2014 | 24,619,549 | | | $ | 487.80
Granted | 14,415,740 | | | $ | 546.46
Vested | (11,182,606 | ) | | $ | 442.01
Forfeited/canceled | (2,111,497 | ) | | $ | 481.37
Unvested as of December 31, 2015 | 25,741,186 | | | $ | 531.74
Expected to vest after December 31, 2015 (1) | 22,672,837 | | | $ | 531.74


(1) | RSUs expected to vest reflect an estimated forfeiture rate.

As of December 31, 2015, there was $11.1 billion of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSUs. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.7 years. To the extent the actual forfeiture rate is different from what we have estimated, stock-based compensation expense related to these awards will be different from our expectations. 
Share Repurchases
In October 2015, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $5,099,019,513.59 of its Class C capital stock, commencing in the fourth quarter of 2015. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market 
90


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through the use of 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. As of December 31, 2015, we repurchased and subsequently retired approximately 2,391 thousand shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of approximately $1,780 million. Alphabet's share repurchases in the year ended December 31, 2015 were funded by Google via a return of capital to Alphabet.
In January 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase an additional amount of approximately 514 thousand shares.
Google Stockholders' Equity
As a result of the Alphabet reorganization, Google has recorded various intercompany activities during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2015 as capital transactions, which are reflected in Google's Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity. Refer to Stock-Based Compensation and Share Repurchases section above, and Note 6, for descriptions of certain activities. Additionally, subsequent to the reorganization, shares withheld to satisfy employee withholding tax obligations and cash received from the exercise of stock options were recorded as capital transactions between Alphabet and Google and are reflected as such in Google's Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity.
Note 14. 401(k) Plans
We have two 401(k) Savings Plans (401(k) Plans) that qualify as deferred salary arrangements under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under these 401(k) Plans, matching contributions are based upon the amount of the employees’ contributions subject to certain limitations. We contributed approximately $202 million, $259 million, and $309 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015.
Note 15. Income Taxes
Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $7,651 million, $8,894 million, and $8,271 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015, and income from foreign operations of $8,248 million, $8,365 million, and $11,380 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015.
The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Current: | | | | | 
Federal | $ | 2,394 | | | $ | 2,716 | | | $ | 3,235
State | 127 | | | 157 | | | (397 | )
Foreign | 711 | | | 774 | | | 723 | 
Total | 3,232 | | | 3,647 | | | 3,561 | 
Deferred: | | | | | 
Federal | (421 | ) | | 29 | | | (198 | )
State | 0 | | | 6 | | | (43 | )
Foreign | (72 | ) | | (43 | ) | | (17 | )
Total | (493 | ) | | (8 | ) | | (258 | )
Provision for income taxes | $ | 2,739 | | | $ | 3,639 | | | $ | 3,303

91


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The reconciliation of federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate is as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Expected provision at federal statutory tax rate (35%) | $ | 5,567 | | | $ | 6,041 | | | $ | 6,878
State taxes, net of federal benefit | 133 | | | 132 | | | (291 | )
Change in valuation allowance | (641 | ) | | (164 | ) | | (65 | )
Foreign rate differential | (2,482 | ) | | (2,109 | ) | | (2,624 | )
Federal research credit | (433 | ) | | (318 | ) | | (407 | )
Basis difference in investment of Arris | 644 | | | 0 | | | 0 | 
Other adjustments | (49 | ) | | 57 | | | (188 | )
Provision for income taxes | $ | 2,739 | | | $ | 3,639 | | | $ | 3,303

A retroactive and permanent reinstatement of the federal research credit was signed into law on December 18, 2015 in accordance with the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015. As such, our effective tax rate for 2015 reflects the benefit of the 2015 federal research and development tax credit.
A retroactive extension of the 2012 federal research and development credit was signed into law on January 2, 2013 in accordance with The American Taxpayer Act of 2012. The benefit of $189 million related to the 2012 federal research and development credit is included in the year ended December 31, 2013.
Our effective tax rate for 2015 included a discrete tax benefit related to refunds and reductions in uncertain tax positions due to the resolution of a multi-year tax audit in the U.S.
Our effective tax rate is impacted by earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions with statutory tax rates lower than the federal statutory tax rate. Substantially all of the income from foreign operations was earned by an Irish subsidiary.
We have not provided U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015 because we intend to permanently reinvest such earnings outside the U.S. If these foreign earnings were to be repatriated in the future, the related U.S. tax liability may be reduced by any foreign income taxes previously paid on these earnings. As of December 31, 2015, the cumulative amount of earnings upon which U.S. income taxes have not been provided is approximately $58.3 billion. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable.
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court, in an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, invalidated the portion of the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section 482 requiring related-party participants in a cost sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. The U.S. Tax Court issued the final decision on December 28, 2015. The government has 90 days from the final decision date to file a notice of appeal. At this time, the U.S. Treasury has not withdrawn the requirement to include stock-based compensation from its regulations. We have evaluated the opinion and have recorded a tax benefit of $3.5 billion related to reimbursement of cost share payments for the previously shared stock-based compensation costs. In addition, we have recorded a tax liability of $3.5 billion for the U.S. tax cost of potential repatriation of the associated contingent foreign earnings because at this time we cannot reasonably conclude that the Company has the ability and the intent to indefinitely reinvest these contingent earnings. The net impact to our consolidated financial statements is not material. We will continue to monitor developments related to the case and the potential impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):
92


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


 | As of December 31,
 | 2014 | | 2015
Deferred tax assets: | | | 
Stock-based compensation expense | $ | 376 | | | $ | 534
State taxes | 133 | | | 119 | 
Investment loss | 133 | | | 144 | 
Legal settlement accruals | 175 | | | 101 | 
Accrued employee benefits | 671 | | | 832 | 
Accruals and reserves not currently deductible | 175 | | | 245 | 
Net operating losses | 207 | | | 230 | 
Tax credits | 262 | | | 503 | 
Basis difference in investment of Arris | 1,347 | | | 1,357 | 
Prepaid cost sharing | 0 | | | 3,468 | 
Other | 243 | | | 337 | 
Total deferred tax assets | 3,722 | | | 7,870 | 
Valuation allowance | (1,659 | ) | | (1,732 | )
Total deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance | 2,063 | | | 6,138 | 
Deferred tax liabilities: | | | 
Depreciation and amortization | (852 | ) | | (1,126 | )
Identified intangibles | (965 | ) | | (787 | )
Mark-to-market investments | (273 | ) | | (93 | )
Renewable energy investments | (430 | ) | | (529 | )
Foreign earnings | 0 | | | (3,468 | )
Other | (125 | ) | | (73 | )
Total deferred tax liabilities | (2,645 | ) | | (6,076 | )
Net deferred tax liabilities | $ | (582 | ) | | $ | 62 

As of December 31, 2015, our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $482 million and $443 million. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2021 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2016. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various annual limitations under the tax laws of the different jurisdictions. Our foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were $263 million that can be carried over indefinitely.
As of December 31, 2015, our California research and development credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $1,044 million that can be carried over indefinitely. We believe the state tax credit is not likely to be realized. Our foreign tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $223 million that will start to expire in 2025. We believe it is more likely than not that all of the foreign tax credit will be realized.
As of December 31, 2015, we maintained a valuation allowance with respect to certain of our deferred tax assets relating primarily to investment losses that are capital in nature, California deferred tax assets, and certain foreign net operating losses that we believe are not likely to be realized. We established a deferred tax asset for the book-to-tax basis difference in our investments in Arris shares received from the sale of the Motorola Home business to Arris in 2013. Since any future losses to be recognized upon the sale of Arris shares will be capital losses, a valuation allowance has been recorded against this deferred tax asset to the extent such deferred tax asset is not covered by capital gains generated as of 2015. We reassess the valuation allowance quarterly and if future evidence allows for a partial or full release of the valuation allowance, a tax benefit will be recorded accordingly.
As a result of the Altera opinion, we have recorded a deferred tax asset of $3.5 billion and a deferred tax liability of $3.5 billion. Refer to above for more details on the Altera case. 
Uncertain Tax Positions
The following table summarizes the activity related to our gross unrecognized tax benefits from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2015 (in millions):
93


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


Balance as of January 1, 2013 | $ | 1,907
Increases related to prior year tax positions | 158 | 
Decreases related to prior year tax positions | (37 | ) 
Decreases related to settlement with tax authorities | (78 | ) 
Increases related to current year tax positions | 552 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2013 | 2,502 | 
Increases related to prior year tax positions | 66 | 
Decreases related to prior year tax positions | (44 | ) 
Decreases related to settlement with tax authorities | (1 | ) 
Increases related to current year tax positions | 771 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2014 | 3,294 | 
Increases related to prior year tax positions | 224 | 
Decreases related to prior year tax positions | (176 | ) 
Decreases related to settlement with tax authorities | (27 | ) 
Increases related to current year tax positions | 852 | 
Balance as of December 31, 2015 | $ | 4,167

The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $2,502 million, $3,294 million, and $4,167 million as of December 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015, respectively, of which, $2,309 million, $2,909 million, and $3,614 million, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate.
As of December 31, 2014 and 2015, we had accrued $239 million and $348 million in interest and penalties in provision for income taxes.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions, our two major tax jurisdictions are the U.S. federal and Ireland. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS completed its examination of our 2003 through 2006 tax years; all issues have been settled except for one which we have filed an appeal with the IRS and plan to litigate in court. The IRS is currently in examination of our 2007 through 2012 tax years. We have also received tax assessments in multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. We continue to defend any and all such claims as presented.
Our 2013, 2014, and 2015 tax years remain subject to examination by the IRS for U.S. federal tax purposes, and our 2011 through 2015 tax years remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits in various other jurisdictions that are not material to our financial statements.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.
We believe that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management's expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Although the timing of resolution, settlement, closure of audits is not certain, we do not believe it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months.
Note 16. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas
In conjunction with the Alphabet reorganization, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we implemented legal and operational changes in how our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) manages our businesses, including resource allocation and performance assessment. Consequently, we have multiple operating segments, representing the individual businesses run separately under the Alphabet structure.
Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the operating segments are combined and disclosed below as Other Bets. All prior-period amounts have been adjusted retrospectively to reflect the reportable segment change.
Our reported segments are described below:
94


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.


• | Google – Google includes our main internet products such as Search, Ads, Commerce, Maps, YouTube, Apps, Cloud, Android, Chrome, Google Play as well as hardware products we sell, such as Chromecast, Chromebooks and Nexus. Our technical infrastructure and newer efforts like Virtual Reality are also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising, sales of digital content, apps and cloud services, as well as sales of Google branded hardware.


• | Other Bets – Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access/Google Fiber, Calico, Nest, Verily, GV, Google Capital, X, and other initiatives. Revenues from the Other Bets is derived primarily through the sales of Nest hardware products, internet and TV services through Google Fiber and licensing and R&D services through Verily.

Revenue, cost of revenue, and operating expenses are generally directly attributed to our segments. Inter-segment revenues are not presented separately, as these amounts are immaterial. Our CODM does not evaluate operating segments using asset information.
Information about segments during the periods presented were as follows (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Revenues: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 55,507 | | | $ | 65,674 | | $ | 74,541
Other Bets | 12 | | | 327 | | | 448
Total revenues | $ | 55,519 | | | $ | 66,001 | | $ | 74,989


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Segment operating income (loss): | | | | | 
Google | $ | 16,260 | | | $ | 19,011 | | | $ | 23,425
Other Bets | (527 | ) | | (1,942 | ) | | (3,567 | )
Reconciling items(1) | (330 | ) | | (573 | ) | | (498 | )
Total income from operations | $ | 15,403 | | | $ | 16,496 | | | $ | 19,360


(1) | Reconciling items are primarily related to corporate administrative costs and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Capital expenditures: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 7,006 | | | $ | 11,173 | | $ | 8,849
Other Bets | 187 | | | 501 | | | 869
Reconciling items(2) | 165 | | | (715 | ) | | 197
Total capital expenditures as presented in Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow | $ | 7,358 | | | $ | 10,959 | | $ | 9,915


(2) | Reconciling items are primarily related to timing differences of payments as segment capital expenditures are on accrual basis while total capital expenditures shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow are on cash basis, capital expenditures of Motorola Mobile and Home, and other miscellaneous differences.

95


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Stock-based compensation and depreciation, amortization and impairment are included in segment operating income (loss) as below (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Stock-based compensation: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 2,911 | | | $ | 3,677 | | $ | 4,587
Other Bets | 124 | | | 347 | | | 498
Reconciling items(3) | 92 | | | 151 | | | 118
Total stock based compensation, excluding discontinued operations(4) | $ | 3,127 | | | $ | 4,175 | | $ | 5,203
Depreciation, amortization and impairment: | | | | | 
Google | $ | 3,668 | | | $ | 4,778 | | $ | 4,839
Other Bets | 24 | | | 148 | | | 203
Reconciling items(5) | 247 | | | 53 | | | 21 
Total depreciation, amortization and impairment as presented in Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow | $ | 3,939 | | | $ | 4,979 | | $ | 5,063


(3) | Reconciling items represent corporate administrative costs that are not allocated to individual segments.


(4) | For purposes of segment reporting, we define SBC as awards accounted for under FASB ASC Topic 718 that we expect to settle in stock. SBC does not include expenses related to awards that we will ultimately settle in cash. Amounts exclude SBC from discontinued operations.


(5) | Reconciling items primarily represent depreciation, amortization and impairment related to Motorola Mobile and Motorola Home.

Revenues by geography are based on the billing addresses of our customers. The following tables set forth revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2013 | | 2014 | | 2015
Revenues: | | | | | 
United States | $ | 25,587 | | | $ | 29,482 | | $ | 34,810
United Kingdom | 5,600 | | | 6,483 | | | 7,067 
Rest of the world | 24,332 | | | 30,036 | | | 33,112
Total revenues | $ | 55,519 | | | $ | 66,001 | | $ | 74,989


 | As of December 31, 2014 | | As ofDecember 31, 2015
Long-lived assets: | | | 
United States | $ | 37,421 | | | $ | 43,686
International | 13,110 | | | 13,661 | 
Total long-lived assets | $ | 50,531 | | | $ | 57,347

Note 17. Revision of Previously Issued Financial Statements
In the second quarter of 2015, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities, and as a consequence, we revised our income tax expense for periods beginning in 2008 through the first quarter of 2015 in the cumulative amount of $711 million. We have evaluated the materiality of the income tax expense impact quantitatively and qualitatively and concluded it was not material to any of the prior periods impacted and that correction of income tax expense as an out of period adjustment in the quarter ended June 30, 2015 is not material to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015. Consolidated revenues are not impacted. We elected to revise previously issued consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the periods impacted to correct the effect of this immaterial income tax expense underaccrual for the corresponding periods.
96


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The following table presents the impact of these corrections on affected Consolidated Balance Sheet line items as of December 31, 2014 (in millions):

 | As of December 31, 2014 
 | As Previously Reported (1) | | Adjustment | | As Revised
Selected Balance Sheets Data: | | | | | 
Income tax receivable, net | $ | 1,298 | | | $ | (707 | ) | $ | 591 
Total current assets | 79,363 | | | (707 | ) | | 78,656 
Total assets | 129,894 | | | (707 | ) | | 129,187
Income taxes payable, non-current | 3,407 | | | (67 | ) | | 3,340 
Retained earnings | 75,706 | | | (640 | ) | | 75,066 
Total stockholders' equity | 104,500 | | | (640 | ) | | 103,860
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity | $ | 129,894 | | | $ | (707 | ) | $ | 129,187

(1)    Includes reclassifications of deferred tax assets and liabilities related to ASU 2015-17 “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” Refer to Note 1 for further information.
The following table presents the impact of these corrections on affected Consolidated Statements of Income line items, including net income per share amounts for Class A and B common stock and Class C capital stock, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014 (in millions, except per share amounts):

 | Year Ended December 31, 2013 | | Year Ended December 31, 2014
 | As Previously Reported | | Adjustment | | As Revised | | As Previously Reported | | Adjustment | | As Revised
Selected Statements of Income Data: | | | | | | | | | | | 
Provision for income taxes | $ | 2,552 | | | $ | 187 | | | $ | 2,739 | | $ | 3,331 | | | $ | 308 | | $ | 3,639
Net income from continuing operations | 13,347 | | | (187 | ) | | $ | 13,160 | | | 13,928 | | (308 | ) | | $ | 13,620 | 
Net income | 12,920 | | | (187 | ) | | $ | 12,733 | | | 14,444 | | (308 | ) | | $ | 14,136 | 
Basic net income per share from continuing operations | $ | 20.05 | | | $ | (0.28 | ) | | $ | 19.77 | | $ | 20.61 | | | $ | (0.46 | ) | $ | 20.15
Basic net income per share | 19.41 | | | (0.28 | ) | | 19.13 | | | 21.37 | | (0.46 | ) | | 20.91 | 
Diluted net income per share from continuing operations | 19.70 | | | (0.28 | ) | | 19.42 | | | 20.27 | | (0.45 | ) | | 19.82 | 
Diluted net income per share | $ | 19.07 | | | $ | (0.28 | ) | | $ | 18.79 | | $ | 21.02 | | | $ | (0.45 | ) | $ | 20.57

The following table presents the impact of these corrections on affected Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income line items for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014 (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31, 2013 | Year Ended December 31, 2014
 | As Previously Reported | Adjustment | | As Revised | As Previously Reported | Adjustment | | As Revised
Selected Statements of Comprehensive Income Data: | | | | | | | | 
Net income | 12,920 | | (187 | ) | 12,733 | | 14,444 | | (308 | ) | 14,136
Comprehensive income | 12,507 | | (187 | ) | 12,320 | | 14,346 | | (308 | ) | 14,038

97


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The following table presents the impact of these corrections on affected Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows line items for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014 (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31, 2013 | | Year Ended December 31, 2014
 | As Previously Reported | | Adjustment | | As Revised | | As Previously Reported | Adjustment | | As Revised
Selected Statements of Cash Flows Data: | | | | | | | | | | 
Net income | $ | 12,920 | | | $ | (187 | ) | 12,733 | | | $ | 14,444 | $ | (308 | ) | $ | 14,136
Changes in income taxes, net | 401 | | | 187 | | | 588 | | 283 | | | 308 | 591 | 


ITEM 9. | CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A. | CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Alphabet
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2015, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed at a reasonable assurance level and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2015 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2015. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with our Audit Committee. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs.
98


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

Google
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2015, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed at a reasonable assurance level and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2015 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2015. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with our Audit Committee. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs.

ITEM 9B. | OTHER INFORMATION

On February 11, 2016, we announced the appointment of James G. Campbell as our Alphabet Corporate Controller, effective February 16, 2016.
Jim, age 60, most recently held the position of Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller at Intel Corporation (from 2004 to 2016) where he was responsible for global accounting, financial services and financial reporting. Previously, Jim was based in Europe, responsible for Intel's international finance operations. He has also been manager of Intel's Financial Information Systems, responsible for designing, developing and implementing Intel's internally used financial applications. In addition, he has served as Asia regional audit manager, Microprocessor Group controller and European Controller. Jim was at Intel for over 30 years and also led and managed the international controllers responsible for financial services, statutory compliance and business support.
Jim received his bachelor's degree in business and accounting from California State University, Hayward. He holds a CPA license and is a member of the Financial Executives Committee on Corporate Reporting (CCR), the Executive Committee of CCR, the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF), the PCAOB Standing Advisory Group (Emeritus), the Portland State University Graduate School of Business Advisory Board and serves on the Board of Trustees Portland Chapter of World Affairs Council.
99


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

The material terms of Jim's compensation are as follows:

• | Salary: $475,000


• | Equity:


◦ | $3.5 million equity grant (Initial Grant) made shortly after hire vesting monthly over 12 months


◦ | $3.5 million equity grant to be made in Q1 2017, to start vesting monthly over 12 months upon the full vest of the Initial Grant


• | $250,000 sign-on bonus, subject to a pro-rated repayment if employment ends within the first 12 months

Jim will also be eligible to participate in the compensation and benefit programs generally available to Google's officers.
PART III

ITEM 10. | DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement for 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 (2016 Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the 2016 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. | EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the 2016 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. | SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in 2016 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. | CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this item will be included under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Director Independence” in the 2016 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. | PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item will be included under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in the 2016 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
100


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

PART IV

ITEM 15. | EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)We have filed the following documents as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
1. Consolidated Financial Statements

Reports of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm | 45
Financial Statements of Alphabet Inc.: | 
Consolidated Balance Sheets | 48
Consolidated Statements of Income | 49
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income | 50
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 51
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows | 52
Financial Statements of Google Inc.: | 
Google Balance Sheets | 53
Google Statements of Income | 54
Google Statements of Comprehensive Income | 55
Google Statements of Stockholders’ Equity | 56
Google Statements of Cash Flows | 57
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements | 58

2. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
The table below details the activity of the allowance for doubtful accounts for the three years ended December 31, 2015 (in millions):

 | Balance atBeginning ofYear | | Additions | Usage | | Balance atEnd of Year
 | (In millions) 
Year ended December 31, 2013 | $ | 581 | | $ | 1,128 | | $ | (1,078 | ) | $ | 631
Year ended December 31, 2014 | $ | 631 | | $ | 1,240 | | $ | (1,646 | ) | $ | 225
Year ended December 31, 2015 | $ | 225 | | $ | 579 | | $ | (508 | ) | $ | 296


Note: | Additions to the allowance for doubtful accounts are charged to expense. Additions to the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2014, additions included the impact from the Motorola acquisition. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014, usages include the impact from the sale of Motorola Home and Mobile businesses, respectively.

All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or the required information is otherwise included.
3. Exhibits
See the Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
101


Alphabet Inc. and Google Inc.

